Kenya’s John Mburu receives the $10,000 prize money after winning the 21km at the Kaduna Marathon. It was the Kenyans all the way in both the male and female categories of the race, yesterday. The Kenyans dominated the maiden edition of the 21km Kaduna Marathon, as they won top prizes in both the male and female categories of the race held yesterday. John Mburu finished first in a time of 1:04:02, while Phillip Taurus came second in 1:05:78 and Josphat Kiptanui finished third in 1:05:78 in the male category. While in the female class, Caren Maiyo ran the fastest time of 1:12:43 to place first, while Cheptoeck Mwetick placed second in 1:15:26 and Lilian Chemweno settled for the third position in 1:15:32. At the prize given ceremony, the winners, first and second runners up in both the male and female categories received $10,000, $7,000 and $5,000 respectively. And in the Nigerian category winners also got their prizes. Upon receiving his prize money, Mburu described the Kaduna Marathon, as one of the best he had ever attended around the world. According to him, he has been running for 10 years and that the Kaduna weather suited him very well and made the race easier for him, adding that he trained hard for the race, and that he was not surprised he won. Mburu, who said he would be willing to return next time for the 2021 edition to defend his title, revealed the Kaduna Marathon was his second competition in Nigeria, noting that he saw some level of improvement in Nigerian runners. “With more encouragement from the government and corporate bodies, I believe the Nigerians will dominate the world in the nearest future,” Mburu said. Governor Nasir El-Rufai had said that the marathon was hosted to boost tourism in the state, while also promoting friendliness and healthy living among the indigenes. Kaduna residents, who attended the event were full of praises for the state governor, describing him as an ‘excellent manager of men and materials, going by the success recorded at the maiden edition of the Kaduna marathon. For the race to record a success, the state government had to close 30 roads for the International Marathon Race to hold yesterday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .