   The gloom in the face of Andrew Cuomo of New York as he reeled out daily situation reports cannot be forgotten so soon. Official Washington had no silver bullet for COVID-19 and still has not found one except touting of vaccine that might be ready ‘soon’. The frustration of no-cure expanded the blame-game. The WHO was complicit with China and the US withdrew officially from the organisation of which he was hitherto a major financier. China would promise more financial support to the WHO.   Rosie Perper of Business Insider reported China’s injection of an extra $30 million into the agency to support the fight against the global pandemic and shore up health systems in poor countries. Indeed, China’s Xi Jinping would respond to Trump’s UN address by a call to “follow the guidance of science, give full play to the leading role of the World Health Organization and launch a joint international response … Any attempt of politicizing the issue, or stigmatization, must be rejected.”  Trump and his wife were infected by the virus and would be interpreted as nemesis since he had always downplayed the infectiousness of the disease. Observers such as Washington Post’s Margaret Sullivan noted that the US needed “an entirely credible, fact-based voice from the White House”. But the Economist could not miss out on the political in it. It wrote that “Donald and Melania Trump have both tested positive for COVID-19, just four weeks before the presidential election. This must be frightening for them and their family. It will also have an important effect on the presidential campaign. Political journalists have been speculating about an October surprise for months. Now we have one”. But it opined that the electoral capital would be minimal in case the incident engendered “a sympathy bump in the polls” but more of a deficit in that “His own illness makes that task impossible for the next ten days. By the time he emerges from quarantine there will not be much time left for him to make up the deficit in his poll numbers”. Alas, POTUS bounced back earlier than expected into his campaign blitz.
 
Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that COVID-19 and its mismanagement by the incumbent Trump administration mattered in the election process. Little wonder that The New England Journal of Medicine was vehement in his call to vote out Trump. As the journal note in its rare editorial: “Anyone else who recklessly squandered lives and money in this way would be suffering legal consequences. Our leaders have largely claimed immunity for their actions. But this election gives us the power to render judgment. Reasonable people will certainly disagree about the many political positions taken by candidates. But truth is neither liberal nor conservative. When it comes to the response to the largest public health crisis of our time, our current political leaders have demonstrated that they are dangerously incompetent. We should not abet them and enable the deaths of thousands more Americans by allowing them to keep their jobs.”  In the bunker, the White House bunker, The Liar Tweets tonight, the death toll rises and multiplies as The Liar Tweets tonight. It’s really Putin who he’s saluting from that West Point grandstand, congratulating him for creating new jobs for the Taliban. Don Psychotic, Lying King. 
“Stop the typing right away, show’s over folks. It’ll vanish any day. It’s a deep state hoax. Need some help? Don’t look at me. You’re on your own. I’m protecting Robert E. Lee and Roger Stone.”
 
“In the country the cries for justice ring through the streets tonight. But in the White House, the might-is-right house, The Liar Tweets tonight. Vote Him Away.” The US elections have come but not gone. Its aftermath will reverberate for a very long time. It seems to me that the elections were not won or lost majorly on the basis of COVID-19 but rather on account of Trump’s alienating nationalism in a frontier country as well as his petulant persona. While Americans sort their mess, the situation reminds me of the assertion of David Runciman of the University of Cambridge whose book, The Confidence Trap, A History of Democracy in Crisis from World War 1 to the Present I reviewed for the Canadian Journal of History in 2016. While paraphrasing De Tocqueville, he notes: “The key to making sense of American democracy was to learn not to take it at face value. It worked despite the fact that it looked as though it shouldn’t work. Its advantages were hidden somewhere beneath the surface and only emerged over time.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .