Nigeria’s first Olympics gold medalist, Chioma Ajunwa, has been unveiled as the brand ambassador of Richlife Africa Project Limited’s ‘Students Against Hunger (SAH)’, a reality show, which is set to debut as part of plans by the firm to eradicate hunger in the land with a resultant effect on decimating poverty. The project, an online entertainment contest, would feature students from tertiary institutions, serving and recently passed out National Youth Service Corps members. SAH is estimated to create thousands of high paying jobs, produce hundreds of millionaires from among the students and also feed millions of hungry Nigerians and other benefits. The maiden edition of the show would generate a minimum of N10 billion from 100,000,000 votes at a coast of N100 within a period of four to six months. At the end, 40 to 50 per cent of the fund raised will be committed to eradicating hunger through the ‘Project Save The Hungry’. Speaking on her role, Ajunwa, who is also an Assistant Commissioner of Police, appealed to the Nigeria Police Force to be part of the project, saying that hunger destroys dreams and talents and that Richlife is there to offer an escape route. “Though I was from a very poor background, the fact remains that if I was denied of food, I would not have been a celebrity today. Now, I am the first Nigerian Olympic gold medalist in Africa and an Assistant Commissioner of Police. My message to everyone out there is that the federal, state, local governments and all patriotic and well-meaning Nigerians should identify with this project. “Also, I’m using this opportunity to specially encourage the Nigerian Police Force to join me in this campaign in order to curb crime amongst our youths in the society by engaging them in meaning investments opportunities through this project,” she stated. According to the Founder/Chief Executive Officer of the firm, Mr. Modestus Bernard, the idea emanated from a brainstorming session tailored towards wiping out hunger in the lives of people. “We are standing here confidently with a complete solution that will radically eradicate hunger in Nigeria within the next seven years. This solution is not from Harvard, but a project of determined effort, sleepless nights and team spirit. “BernarD Triangle is a seven-year roadmap that will provide surplus of food, create millions of high paying jobs, produce millionaires thereby lubricating the economy,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .