 [FILE PHOTO]  Nasarawa State<br />Photo: Wikipedia  Unknown gunmen have abducted and killed Nasarawa State chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Philip Shekwo, in Lafia. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Katsina State has condemned the killing of its chairman in Sabuwa council area, Lawal Dako, by bandits. In the Nasarawa incident, the assailants, numbering over 10 persons, launched the attack at about 11:00 pm on Saturday amid sporadic gunshots. An eyewitness said: “The kidnappers came as if it was a war situation because of the quantum of shooting that created a serious scare. “Corpse of the late Shekwo was later found in a pool of his blood a few metres away along Kurkyo Road, new Bukan Sidi on Sunday (yesterday) afternoon with bullet wounds.” The Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, said the “incident can best be described as assassination given the type of bullet and arms used to gain entry.” He added: “We will investigate the situation surrounding the murder. No demand was made, and the murder happened very close to the house. It is not far from the place of his assassination.” Governor Abdullahi Sule, his predecessor, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, Speaker Abdullahi, and other top government officials have paid condolence visits. MEANWHILE, the national leader of the APC has urged the police and relevant security services to fish out the killers. “We urge a thorough investigation by the police and another relevant security service to quickly fish out sponsors and perpetrators of this evil, heinous and barbaric crime,” its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena,
said. IN the same vein, the Ogun State chapter of the ruling party, in a statement by its caretaker Publicity Secretary, Tunde Oladunjoye, quoted the state chairman, Chief Yemi Sanusi, as describing the death as  “an unfortunate incident and a most painful loss to the party and progressives family.” Confirming Katsina’s development, state PDP chairman, Salisu Majigiri, described the violence as worrisome, even as he called on the Federal Government to check banditry in the entire northwest geo-political zone. Dako, 63, who was shot alongside his granddaughter at Ladi village in the night of November 8, died on Friday, November 20, and has since been buried according to Islamic rites. While the granddaughter died on the spot, Dako was, however, rushed to the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital in Shika, Zaria for medical attention. Confirming the passing, Majigiri said the bandits shot him five times at the close range. He described the current security situation in the state as disturbing. BESIDES, home of the member representing Kusada/Kankia/Ingawa Federal Constituency of the state in the House of Representatives, Abubakar Yahaya, has been invaded by hoodlums in Kusada Local Council. Though he was around during the 1:00 am attack yesterday, the lawmaker, however, confirmed that two persons, including a middle-aged woman and a teenager identified as Talatu and Suleiman, were abducted. Governor Bello Muhammed Matawalle of Zamfara State has, for the second time, facilitated the unconditional release of 11 captives. Comprising 10 males and a female, the victims believed to have been kidnapped from Bukkuyum council area of the state, were formally received at the weekend by the governor at the Government House, Gusau. On the occasion, Matawalle reassured the people of his administration’s commitment to sustainable peace in the state. “The peace accord and reconciliation process with repentant bandits will be sustained in the state,” he pledged. ALSO yesterday, authorities of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, Kaduna confirmed the release of its nine students kidnapped last Sunday along the Abuja-Kaduna highway. The institution’s Director of Public Affairs, Mallam Auwal Umar, yesterday said the hostages regained freedom on Saturday night. But he could not confirm if the ransom was paid to secure their liberty. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .