APO Group (https://APO-opa.com/), the leading pan-African communications and business consultancy, is proud to announce that Fathima Ebrahim VP: Media Relations, will be an evaluator for the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) Africa Regional Silver Quills awards (https://www.IABC.co.za/).  This year there will be 27 evaluators and moderators taking part, with 54 entries submitted across the 25 categories. The senior communication professionals that comprise the evaluation committee include:  Amanda Hamilton-Attwell, ABC
Andre Oberholzer
Ann Farndell, ABC
Caren Venter
Carla Pattison
Carol Allers, ABC
Christine Breet
Daniel Munslow
Deyasha Sukdeo
Elsabe Coetzee
Elzette van Niekerk
Fathima Ebrahim
Ilze Olivier
Jeannette Coetzee
Jo Eyer
Lacea Loader
Mari Lee, ABC (Chair)
Phumi Dhlomo
Rachel Mothibatsela
Roslyn Jones   
Sophia Dower
Stephanie Griffiths, ABC
Sylvester Chauke
Tanya Aucamp, ABC
Taryn van Olden, ABC
Theresa Lee (Co-chair)
Willa de Ruyter  The IABC Africa Regional Silver Quill Awards programme recognises business communication excellence across the continent. The Quill Awards programme salutes work that makes a significant contribution to business outcomes. Each entry is evaluated by two senior communication professionals using a seven-point scale of excellence, seeking whether communicators can demonstrate the impact their work has had on business goals, and that are innovative and unique.  The spirit behind the Quill Awards is both the recognition and the continuous learning and professional growth that salutes communicators, their team and organisations. The aim is to encourage the pursuit of excellence rather than competition. In today’s fast-paced world, it has become even more important for great communicators to be recognised, rewarded and celebrated.  And once you have Silver, go for Gold with the global Gold Quill Awards, that has its early bird closing deadline on 8 January 2021. More information is available on https://gq.IABC.com/.  Fathima has been active in the communications, PR and media industries for over 20 years, working with international and local brands and companies. She is a member of the IABC Africa Region and has had the opportunity to network with communicators across the globe and has had the privilege of being an evaluator for the past 3 years.  “We wish all the entrants the best of luck for the announcement, and to the IABC for having such a huge impact on business communicators across Africa,” said Nicolas Pompigne-Mognard, Founder and Chairman of APO Group.  Mari Lee, Chair of the Africa Business Chapter said “There is a marked difference between the Quills and other award programmes that African communication professionals have access too. Other award programmes evaluate creative implementation, and trends based on the entries received, and evaluate quality of campaigns against each other. The Quills require very specific strategic thinking, research, business and communication results, and the creative work being placed in strategic context. The key to winning Quills is brilliant work on a strategic business level, and on a creative tactical communication level. We are excited to announce the winners of the region mid-November.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of APO Group. Media Contact:
Sara Payne
VP Marketing and Public Relations
sara.payne@apo-opa.com
+44 11 4399 3131 About APO Group:
Founded in 2007, APO Group (https://APO-opa.com/) is the leading pan-African communications and business consultancy. We assist private and public organisations in sharpening their reputation and increasing their brand equity in target countries across Africa. Our role as a trusted partner is to leverage the power of media and build bespoke strategies that enable organisations to produce a real, measurable impact in Africa and beyond. The trust and recognition granted to APO Group by global and multinational companies, governments, and NGOs inspires us to continuously enhance our value proposition within Africa to better cater to our clients’ needs. Among our prestigious clients: Facebook, Dangote Group, Nestlé, GE, Uber, Microsoft, Nokia, NBA, Canon, PwC, DHL, Marriott Group, Ecobank, Philips, Siemens, Standard Chartered, HP, Hilton, Ernst & Young, Orange. Headquarters: Lausanne, Switzerland | Offices in Senegal, Dubai and Hong Kong. For further information, please visit our website: https://APO-opa.com/. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .