Pearson (https://middleeast.Pearson.com), the world’s learning company, hosted a virtual launch of its PTE Secure English Language Test (SELT) in Nigeria. These tests have been approved by the UK Home Office and are used for UK Visas & Immigration (UKVI) purposes.  SVP for English Assessment at Pearson, Freya Thomas Monk, says these tests offer a fast, fair and convenient choice for anyone who wishes to work, study or come to live in the UK.  Monk is excited about launching this product in the African continent and believes that this test will help many Nigeriens broaden their horizons and apply for opportunities in the UK. “The process is simple and brilliantly designed, interactive and most importantly a true reflection of one’s language ability. We look forward to growing on the continent.”  At the virtual launch, Ozhan Toktas, Pearson’s MD for Africa and Middle East provided an overview of Pearson and the role the education institution will be playing in Africa going forward. He was joined by Monk who discussed the value of Pearson PTE. Alongside her, Pearson Head of Market Development Assessment, Muna Mazhar provided insights on UKIV SELT. Before the final Q&A, Deputy High Commissioner Ben Llewellyn-Jones reiterated the importance of these tests and assessments from a UK perspective.  Tests are delivered through the Pearson VUE test center network. Pearson VUE’s network of test centers have implemented proactive health and safety measures including, but not limited to, readily available hand sanitizer, increased sanitization in high touch areas, and disinfected testing workstations (completed between each test taker) to support the safety of testing candidates and staff. Face masks are required at all Pearson VUE-owned test centers.  Monk says, “We continue to see high demand from test takers who want to book and deliver PTE as a Secure English Language Test, especially when it comes to applying for a UK Visa and Immigration purposes.”  This new location brings Pearson’s worldwide total of UKVI approved locations close to 150. Monk says this will help meet customer demand and give Nigerians more choice of test locations as they look to move to the UK to work, study or live.  Pearson’s SELT tests are focused on immigration requirements and the details are as follows:  PTE Academic is one of the fastest-growing products in Pearson and is a strategic growth priority for the company, posting 17% growth in test volumes last year. The test is already accepted by the Australian and New Zealand Governments for all visa applications. It is also accepted by 100% of Australian, New Zealand and Irish universities and 99% of UK universities. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Pearson. Note to Editors: To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .