Justice E.B. Mohammed of the High Court of Kwara State has ordered the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS) to pay a consulting firm, Mazars N104, 908,939.57 for recovery of professional fees, remuneration and or commission. The claimants, which are Mr. Adeyemi Sanni Sheriff, Mrs. Adedoyin Sanni, and Mr. Bamidele Ogunlowo under Mazars Consulting, had approached the court and sought some reliefs. The reliefs include payment of N104.9million being the sum due as commissions for services rendered to the defendants by the claimants. The firm also demanded the payment being the sum due as commission for services rendered to the defendants by the claimants. In all, the claimant prayed for the payment of N569, 765, 358. 43 representing unpaid commission said to be legitimately due to and or owed to the firm by the defendant (KWIRS) for services rendered to it. The firm had claimed that the defendant had failed to pay them the agreed commission and or remuneration in respect of professional services like tax collection, tax audit, tax consulting, and tax advisory services, which is rendered to the defendant and was assigned to it by the Kwara State Public-Private Partnership office (KP3) on behalf of the KWIRS. Ruling on the matter, Justice E.B. Mohammed ordered the defendant to pay the claimant the first relief it sought. “I find and hold that having admitted the first leg of the claimants’ claim, the defendant has no defence to this leg of the action. On the whole, judgment is and is hereby entered for claimants in terms of the first leg of their claim in the sum of N104, 908,939.57 against the defendant’s N464, 856,418.86,” the judge held. On the second claim of N464, 856,418.86, the judge granted KWIRS leave to defend it. He said, “The defendant is hereby granted leave to defend the second leg of the claimants’ claim. Accordingly, the defendant is hereby granted leave to defend the second leg of the claimant’s claim. “Consequently, pleadings are hereby ordered 14 days by 14 days and 7 days for a reply/counter-claim, if any.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .