 Christian Chukwu. Photo Ghana soccer net  Former Super Eagles Coach, Christian Chukwu, has advised national team manager, Gernot Rohr, to identify a first 11 and build his team around the squad, saying constant changes in personnel is hurting the team. According to Chukwu, after five years, Rohr should have a reliable squad that would only need to be rejiggered once in a while. The former Harambee Stars of Kenya coach said Super Eagles African Cup of Nations qualifier against Sierra Leone in Benin exposed the weaknesses in Rohr’s current method, saying that a team built on many years of playing together would not crumble easily after leading 4-0 in a match. “Gernot Rohr has no excuse not to have built a solid regular 11-man squad that will play matches for the country regularly. He cannot keep joking with Nigerians by going round different countries selecting players from various leagues to play for the country in different competitions. There should be a standing team. “His current method is dangerous. How do you expect the Eagles to play beautiful football like the old Green Eagles and the 1994 Eagles when the players don’t even know themselves and the style of play. It is also not right that there is no home-based player in the national team. “Rohr needs to develop our national team by building a solid squad and stop going around the world scouting for players which has not yielded any positive result.” Chukwu said Nigerians should be consoled by the fact that the Eagles are still topping their group, and advised the technical crew to ensure the Super Eagles win their next game against Benin Republic to book the African Nations Cup ticket. Meanwhile, Nigeria Football Federation’s (NFF) Technical Director, Augustine Eguaveon, has said that the federation’s technical committee will not interfere in Rohr’s team selection. He said the committee would work with the Eagles handler to ensure the team excelled in subsequent engagements, adding that all hands must be on deck to ensure the Super Eagles picks the 2022 AFCON ticket. “My duty is to see how we can work with Rohr and other national team coaches to build Nigeria’s football. “The Super Eagles and other national teams need equal attention to excel. The committee would work with Rohr, but we will not make choices for him. “I have started working round the clock to ensure Nigerian football develops from different stages,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .