Head of Stakeholder Relations and Communication, Savannah Energy, Nkoyo Etuk (left); the Judoka, Enku Ekuta; her father, Ewa and the Nigerian Content Development/CSR Advisor, Savannah Energy, Roland Uye, at the signing of the Accugas sponsorship deal with Ekuta in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Accugas Limited, a Savannah Energy company, has disclosed a sponsorship deal for Nigerian judo sensation, Enku Ekuta, for an initial 12-month period training and competition to ensure she qualifies for the 2021 Summer Olympic Games holding in Tokyo, Japan. Ekuta was identified as an emerging talent at a ‘Weekend of Judo Master class’ sponsored by Accugas in February, this year. The event was facilitated by world -renowned Billy Cusack and Sarah Clark. She is also the highest ranked Nigerian judo athlete by the International Judo Federation (ITF), and she has been a national champion in her category since 2016. The deal is said to cover Enku’s training at the Edinburgh Judo Club in the United Kingdom, where she will have access to world-class facilities, coaching by two renowned Olympics coaches, Billy Cusack and Sarah Clark, as well as opportunity to train with some of the best judokas in Europe and across the world. Commenting on the deal, the firm’s Head of Stakeholder Relations and Communication, Nkoyo Etuk, said: “The sponsorship is a part of our corporate social responsibility and a demonstration of Accugas’ commitment to the development of judo in Nigeria, a sport that is still growing in Nigeria. “We believe that our company’s gesture, something unprecedented in the history of Judo in Nigeria, will help increase interest in judo in the country and attract more corporate sponsorships,” she said, adding that Accugas is optimistic that Enku will take advantage of the opportunity to excel at the Olympic games and do Akwa Ibom State and Nigeria proud. In her response, Ekuta thanked Accugas for the gesture. “I want to thank Accugas for this rare opportunity. Judo is a sport that hardly gets corporate sponsorship in Nigeria”. This sponsorship is a massive boost for my career and I will put in my best effort to excel and justify the confidence which Accugas has reposed in me”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .