 Eagles bow their heads after a disappointing 4-4 scores in the AFCON qualifier duel against Leone Stars in Benin City, Edo State, on Friday.  The Eagles, despite leading 4-1 in the first half, after goals scored from Alex Iwobi (4th and 27th minute), Victor Osimhen (21st) and Samuel Chukwueze (29th), caved in, leaving the Leone Stars to equalize in the match. Laloko, who spoke to The Guardian yesterday, said that he had always maintained that Rohr cannot take the male senior national team to anywhere as long as he remains the handler of the Eagles, but added that nobody was ready to listen to him upon the errors in selection and placement of players, which has exposed his ineptitude. “As early as 6:30 a.m. this morning, Chief Onigbinde (Adegboye) called to express his anguish over the match. And I told him we don’t have a coach. We have said it several times, but some people don’t care to listen to us. “The boys got tired in the second half and Gernot Rohr now compounded the situation by making wrong changes, as he always do. After making those changes, he didn’t know where to put the players on the field,” he said, adding that he saw some funny players he never thought could play for the Eagles, which he said somehow reflects the introduction of federal character into the national team. “Must we make our national team look like a national team through some players Rohr introduced against the Leone Stars, comprising the northerners, easterners and Yoruba people? I don’t think that is what we should be doing at this time. We should be thinking of how to build a good team for Nigeria with the best players we have. And not putting players in wrong places and removing those that can score goals for us. “For me, I have always seen Rohr as a failure no matter what. The numbers of players he assembles during our matches is uncalled for. Why do we keep inviting so many players from abroad? That is also part of the problem because Rohr is not sure of whom he wants to use and this is because the NFF has no policy on how to develop our football. They are not just ready to do anything in that regards,” he said. The former The Gambia national team coach then added, “during my time as the technical director of the NFF, as a policy we had 25 per cent home-based players in the Super Eagles camp, either they will be played or not. “Rohr doesn’t watch our local league and so how does he know anything about the players in our league. He keeps inviting all the players from abroad so that he can be able to win matches. I can only wish Nigeria the best of the luck,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .