You Are Depriving Nigerian Youths Education — YPF Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Nsukka Zone, has said the union will welcome any policy aimed at taming corrupt activities, even as it will continue to resist any action that is capable of frustrating educational and national development. Addressing the media in Makurdi, yesterday, the ASUU members led by its zonal coordinator, Dr. Igbana Ajir, also stated that such action would receive the support of the union and must be backed by extant law to avoid complication on the flow of funds and management of personnel in the university system. Meanwhile, Nigerian youths under the aegis of Young Parliamentarian Forum (YPF) has frowned at the continued strike by ASUU, saying the body was depriving youths their right to education. YPF in a communiqué issued at the end of it’s strategy meeting by it’s Chairman and Member, House of Representatives, Kabir Tukura said the forum position was based on the fact that education is key to the human capital building and national development. However, Ajir has said, “the union’s position is predicated on extant legal provisions and negotiated agreements, which are based on the peculiarities of Nigerian universities including, the university autonomy, FG agreement with ASUU, and peculiarities, nature and structure of Nigerian universities. He insisted that the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS), which compels staff in public universities in Nigeria to enroll to be paid centrally, not only violates the autonomy of universities but contradicts the superiority of the Governing Councils in the control and management of university funds, employment, discipline and promotion of staff. While sayng that since February 2020, the Federal Government, through the Accountant General I of the Federation, directed the stoppage of salaries of ASUU members, Ajir accused the FG of starving and coercing members of the union into accepting bad policies about operations of universities. “We cannot imagine how IPPIS office could spend hundreds of millions of tax payers’ money touring the Federal universities for weeks and months without knowing what data they were looking for.” Also, while commending the Federal Government for declaring November 1 every year as the National Youth Day, the YPF, in its Communiqué, said: “The forum is concerned at the high rate of unemployment amongst Nigerian youths.” The forum condemned killing of peaceful protesters and commiserate with families who lost loved ones through acts of police brutality or in the ensuing protest. The forum called on government to ensure justice for the victims and provide succour to the families of those lost to the defunct SARS and during the peaceful protests. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .