Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero (left); Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Ogunwusi and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar 111 at the 5th coronation anniversary lecture of the Ooni in Ibadan…yesterday PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM The Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar 111, yesterday, warned the Federal Government and other levels of government that things could slip from bad to worse for Nigeria if decisive steps are not taken to listen to the cries of the citizens and act on them appropriately. Abubakar, speaking at the 5th coronation anniversary lecture of the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, held at the Banquet Hall of Premier Hotel, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, titled, ‘Preventing our Common Heritage: Celebrating the Labour of our Heroes Past,’ organised by the Oodua Descendants Worldwide, the Sultan noted the array of traditional rulers that graced the occasion and representatives of the Oba of Benin and Emir of Ilorin, as well as political office holders has sent a positive signals to the public space that unity in diversity of Nigeria should be emphasised. The event was also attended by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi; Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji; Aje Ogungunniso I; Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero; Oniru of Iru; Elegushi of Ikateland; Alara of Ara and representatives of state governors in the Southwest, who paid glowing tributes to Oba Ogunwusi. Speaking further, the head of the Muslim community in Nigeria said the fact that people saw monarchs from different parts of the country together “means a lot, especially at this time when there so much cries; cries for division here and there and cries for do this and do that. “I am not going to talk politics; I am not a politician, but I am the father of politicians. I can talk politics from now till tomorrow, it may not get into some people’s heads, but I know some words will get into some people’s heads, whether they like it or not.” The Sultan also made reference to the alarm he raised on Thursday in Abuja that the northern part of the country is a dangerous place to live, based on insecurity rocking the region at the moment, adding: “If you check the newspapers today (yesterday), almost all of them have this very bold headlines on what I said on Thursday. It means some people are watching; they are listening, they are reading. “What we want is for them to implement, act. If you listen, you will hear what people have been saying and crying for. When you don’t act, then things will get worse. When things get worse, they will get worst. When they get worst, of course, it is only Almighty Allah who will come and help us. “So, let’s not allow that; let’s rise up and make things change in this great country. Almighty couldn’t have made a mistake when He put this country together. And if He wants to do whatever He wants to do, He will just do it. He will separate this country, divide it into one million little pieces and you will need visa to go somewhere and you may not get the visa.” The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Adeyemi, who prayed for long life for Oba Ogunwusi, lauded the Sultan for saying the truth to the authorities even at the highest level in Nigeria, especially that the northern part of the country is the worst place to live based on protracted insecurity in the region. He also urged different ethnic groups to embrace peace, so that the country could move forward. Both monarchs condemned the killing of another monarch in Ondo State on Thursday. Oba Ogunwusi, in his address, thanked the traditional rulers and other representatives that honoured him with their presence on the occasion, saying: “We can see the mix of all of us that are here and that is the beauty of our dear country. “Anytime we are talking about the unity of this country and togetherness, these royal fathers are always there to support government in anything they do.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .