 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  In this present endeavour, we draw attention to the contradictions of the present unitary status quo that is mislabelled as the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The protagonists of a unitary system of government have for a long time advanced the reasons for such a system. They argue that federalism is susceptible to separatist impulses, duplication of responsibilities, and a slowdown of policies and programmes. On the other hand, the unitary polarity ensures cohesion in policy and encourages national integration. These arguments may be plausible in climes where there is coherence in cultural practices as well as religious and linguistic uniformity.
 
The inherent federal characteristics of the peoples of the geographical space called Nigeria, namely, linguistic differentiation, territorial delineation, and other sundry cultural disparities accentuate the eternal wisdom of cohabitation within a federal constitutional arrangement in ways that can keep at bay mutual recriminations, unleash a space for development underlined by both comparative advantage and economy of scale. We have lost this to the irredentism and exploitative inclinations of the actors at the centre in the prevailing skewed arrangement prone to the anarchic cycles of violence, development inertia, and rudderlessness of the ship of state.
 
The present contradictions of the Nigerian state include its inability to fulfill the primary responsibility of the state which is to provide security of life and property. This is engrossed in Section 14 (2) (b) of the 1999 Constitution as amended which states inter alia the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government.” Today, there is virtually no part of the country that is not under the threat of kidnappers and armed bandits. Over the years well-meaning Nigerians and some state governors have called for the establishment of state police under the rubric of community policing. As always, the actors at the centre, veritable stand patters, have refused to see reasons hanging onto the overweighed exclusive list. Recently, state executives have had to seek refuge under the residual list to establish some quasi security outfits to secure the lives and property of their citizens. The Amotekun in the southwest and several vigilante organisations in other parts of the country typifies the point being made. Despite all of these, the central authorities still live in denial.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .