 EFCC PHOTO: PIUS UTOMI EKPEI/AFP/GETTY IMAGES<br />  The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has sought the assistance of the International Police Organisation (Interpol) on extradition of fleeing Process and Industrial Developments Nigeria Limited (P&ID) officials and Nigerian treasury looters and cybercrime suspects hibernating abroad. The Acting Chairman, Mohammad Umar Abba, made the appeal when a delegation from the National Central Bureau of Interpol Nigeria, led by its Head, CP Garba Baba Umar, visited him yesterday in Abuja. He said the anti-graft agency needed help to repatriate some fugitive looters currently taking refuge in some West African countries, particularly Ghana and Senegal, noting that with Interpol’s support, corrupt elements that fled Nigeria could be forced back home to face justice. “We most graciously need your intervention and assistance so that we can get enough information that could lead to the extradition of some of our suspects,” Abba said. The EFCC boss specifically requested the arrest of the P&ID officials. He noted: “There are two suspects being investigated in regards to this case. They are Italians who are also on the run from the country.  The information we have is that they are currently in Italy. We want the assistance of Interpol in this regard, especially for information that could lead to their extradition.” Abba expressed delight at the fruitful collaboration between the two organisations, adding that EFCC had benefitted much from it. Responding, the delegation leader, Umar, assured the commission his establishment was on the same page with it on the P&ID case. He vowed not to relent until justice is served on all in the matter. MEANWHILE, Acting Director-General of the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Prof. Alex Uwadiegwu Akpa, has landed in the net of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) for allegedly defrauding the Federal Government of N400 million. ICPC spokesperson, Azuka Ogugua, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, stated that “intelligence-led investigation revealed that the money, which the Acting DG claimed to be an intervention fund for the biotechnology agency, was diverted into private pockets.” The professor of microbiology and biotechnology was alleged to have shared the money with some other top management staff. “He was therefore arrested by operatives of the commission to answer questions on how the said amount belonging to the government could disappear under his watch. The Acting DG is also facing questions bordering on conspiracy and abuse of office,” Ogugua further confirmed. She continued: “His actions are contrary to and punishable under sections 19 and 26 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. “Further investigations into the Acting DG’s alleged fraudulent activities are ongoing and the commission will take appropriate action once they are concluded.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .