In commemoration of 50 years of diplomatic relations between Nigeria and Jamaica, travel enthusiasts with a passion for adventure will have a chance to create history by being part of the first direct charter flights from Lagos to Montego Bay, Jamaica this December. The Jamaican High Commission in Abuja, and Nigerians Travel Too, a leading tour operator based in Lagos and the UK, are anchoring the flights to a world-class tourist destination. Both partners have dubbed the Nai-Jamaica Project. A dedicated website has been launched, to showcase the range of travel and business opportunities that are available. Jamaica’s High Commissioner to Nigeria, Esmond Reid, said: “The ideology is to celebrate the diplomatic relationship between both countries through the direct flight, which is an historic and unique opportunity to reconnect with family and friends not just from Nigeria and Jamaica, but the Caribbean and other parts of the world. Both countries have worked hard to promote culture, education, industrial and economic development, at different levels.” He noted that Jamaica has won many international travel and tourism awards, and has developed special COVID-19 protocols for the tourism sector. “In the face of the global pandemic, these protocols will help to protect and enhance the tourism experience for visitors and workers in the industry.” He further explained that in tandem with the upcoming flights, handcrafted holiday experiences and multiple travel packages have been designed with each visitor in mind. “The main items covered include: flight tickets, accommodation, airport transfers, tours and meals among others. The first flight will leave Lagos on December 21 and return on December 28, 2020. A second rotation will take place from December 30 to January 6, 2021. Each flight will last for about 11 hours and relieves the travelers of the stress of securing transit visas via Europe or the U.S. and the uncertainties associated with multiple connections.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .