Emir of Bichi, Dr. Nasiru Ado Bayero, yesterday, commended Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for the peace the Northern community has been enjoying in the state. He said the Ugwuanyi administration’s commitment to national integration and peaceful co-existence among all Nigerians in Enugu State, irrespective of tribe, religion and political differences was well acknowledged, adding: “We will not forget that and we will ever be grateful to you.” The Emir also praised the traditional rulers in the state for the cordial relationship with the Northern community in their communities, saying: “Reports from them have been positive and so, we are very grateful.” Bayero, who is the younger brother of the Emir of Kano, Aminu Ado Bayero, stated this when he visited Ugwuanyi at Government House, Enugu, where he assured the governor that they would protect his interests in Kano and ensure Igbo people or other Nigerians resident Kano were safe. Describing his visit to Enugu State as homecoming, he narrated the relationship his late father, Ado Bayero, enjoyed with his Igbo friends, especially while he was Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) for over 20 years. MEANWHILE, Nollywood actor, John Okafor, popularly called Mr. Ibu, has extolled Governor Ugwuanyi’s leadership qualities, describing him as a visionary, peaceful, compassionate, and unassuming leader. Ibu also commended Ugwuanyi for his leadership style, which he said, had brought peace, security, and development of rural communities in the state, stressing: “The governor is a God-sent leader to Enugu State.”
 
He stated this when he led his team on a courtesy visit to Government House, Enugu, to appreciate Ugwuanyi for celebrating with him (Ibu) at his 60th birthday. Speaking, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Ice Diamond Entertainment, Comrade Monday Diamond (Odoziobodo), who hosted the event, also applauded Ugwuanyi for “the magnificent way he celebrated Okafor through his support, which culminated in the success of the event”. Responding, Ugwuanyi, who congratulated Ibu on his 60th birthday, praised the Nollywood actor for making Enugu State and the entire Igbo nation proud with his talent. In furtherance of his love for the entertainment industry, he adopted every Easter Monday as “Mr. Ibu Day” and the official annual entertainment day for Enugu State. The multiple awards winning actor was conferred with the “Doctorate Degree Award in Entertainment” by Kanaz Establishment at the event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .