Recommend Sani Abacha, Agege, Nnamdi Azikiwe, eight others for upgrade/repairs The League Management Company (LMC) has approved 13 stadiums across the country to host matches of the 2020/2021 Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) while recommending 11 others for repairs and/or upgrade before they will be allowed to host games. Among the arenas okayed for the season are Enyimba International Stadium, Aba; Godswill Akpabio Stadium, Uyo; Teslim Balogun Stadium, Lagos; and the Okigwe Township Stadium, in Imo State. Also approved for matches are Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin; Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba; Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi; Gombe Township Stadium, Pantami; Aper Aku Stadium, Makurdi; Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna; Muhammad Dikko Stadium, Katsina; and Ilorin Township Stadium. A statement by the LMC revealed that the clubs were informed of the status of their stadium on Friday. The memo to the clubs made available to The Guardian reads:  “In line with the CAF Circular of July 26, 2020, on stadium infrastructure among others, which was forwarded to you and the need to meet up with the requirements of high-quality television production by our new partners, the LMC has reviewed various reports submitted on the state of our stadia across the country.” The memo explained that the inspected stadiums have been categorised into two- A and B with Category A representing those that have been approved to host NPFL matches for the season having met the minimum requirements, while Category B includes those requiring upgrades. “We have made notes on the areas/repairs needed to be done before recertification,” the memo added. While the LMC listed 11 stadiums for upgrade and repair works, it recommended complete remodeling and reconstruction of Umuahia Township Stadium and Dutse Township Stadium. The rest were listed as requiring repairs varying from relaying of new synthetic grass, regrassing, provision of floodlights, television camera platforms, and upgrade of changing rooms, as well as provision of additional exit and entry gates among other basic requirements. They are Sani Abacha Stadium, Kano; Agege Stadium; Akure Township Stadium; Warri Township Stadium; New Jos Township Stadium; and Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu. The rest are Lafia Township Stadium; IfeanyiUbah Stadium, Nnewi; and Future Stadium, Yola. “They will be inspected for certification after construction work has been completed. “Clubs whose preferred grounds have been recommended for an upgrade would have to choose from any of the certified grounds should they be unable to complete the upgrade before the start of the season,” the LMC said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .