For quite some time, the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in crisis at the national and across many states in the country with factions emerging here and there almost tearing the party apart. As fallout, some persons like the then National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and his entire executive were casualties. Thus against this background, President Muhammadu Buhari and other top leaders of the party rallied round and named a nine man Interim Management Committee (IMC) with the governor of Yobe State, Mallam Mai Bala Buni as the Chairman. The main mandate of the IMC was to resolve all crises at the national and state levels then put the party back on track.  “I am suggesting that whatever registration or exercise they are doing, they should be transparent. They should do it in such a way that all stakeholders are involved. The fear of certain persons is that  this thing will be hijacked by certain forces for their 2023 ambition and that will tear the party further apart. But if they come up and do it in a transparent manner and ensure that all the major stakeholders agree and accept the modalities for implementation, it will be successful. If that does not happen it will break and completely destroy the party in the country and that is the last thing we want to happen at this time especially when we do not have somebody like the president running again.”  He said that despite various odds, “the IMC is doing its best.” While urging the committee to remain neutral, Ebri noted: “To actually resolve issues, they must go down to earth. The only way the committee can succeed in its activities is if transparency, justice and equity are infused into them. 
 
“Any attempt to steer its activities in the direction of any political tendencies in the party ahead of the 2023 presidential election will further deepen the crisis in the party and compromise the party’s chances of winning the election.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .