Epazz Inc. (Epazz.com) DeskFlex (OTC: EPAZ) (DeskFlex.com), a leading provider of mission-critical cloud-computing software solutions, announced today that DeskFlex's vaccine management solution will help organizations plan and develop COVID-19 vaccination programs among its team members when it is released.  Pharmaceutical companies are working double-time to create a vaccine against the Novel 2019 Coronavirus. One of the leading pharmaceutical companies, Pfizer, developed a vaccine with a promising result of 90% effectivity according to the company's clinical results. Over 43,538 volunteers participated and received two injections within 21 days apart. The company claimed that among the 94 evaluable COVID-19 cases, results revealed that more than 90% effectively prevented the Coronavirus infection. This result exceeded the Food and Drug Administration set a 50% minimum effectiveness bar. This promising result will pave the way for mass vaccinations if FDA approves the final stage of testing.  DeskFlex vaccine management software will facilitate the tracking and management of employees' immunization against the Coronavirus. It allows employees to indicate their vaccination history through the health record management service. With the development of approved COVID-19 vaccines on the way, company administrators can monitor which team member has completed their vaccinations and which employees need a reminder to schedule and receive the COVID-19 vaccine through DeskFlex vaccine management solution.  The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other collaborative health agencies initiated the Immunization Integration Program (IIP) four years ago. After clinicians found it challenging to keep track and improve adult vaccinations, the program started. The program's goal was to help automate immunization-related tasks with an electronic health record and clinic software systems. Thus, with the digitalization of immunization records and schedules, the program aimed to increase vaccination rates within the adult population and secure these immunization records in cloud-based storage.  DeskFlex desk and room scheduling software solutions pride itself on providing organizations with a comprehensive set of COVID-compliant software features. The launching of DeskFlex's vaccine management software will further reinforce the workplace's health and safety measures.  According to Shaun Passley, Ph.D., Chairman, and CEO of Epazz, Inc., “We are optimistic that adding the vaccine management software feature will further secure the workplace and schools from COVID-19 infections.  When administrators identify those who haven't had the vaccine, they can make the appropriate decision to protect the majority.” Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Epazz, Inc.. Media Contact:
For More Information, Please Contact Investor Relations
investors@epazz.net
(312) 955-8161
www.Epazz.com About DeskFlex:
DeskFlex (DeskFlex.com) is a desk booking solution (Deskflex.com/DeskBooking) and room reservation software useful in booking conference rooms, meeting rooms, workspaces, desks, car parking spaces, and office equipment. DeskFlex meeting room scheduling system helps office managers accommodate remote workers' time in the office, reducing rent and facility costs. DeskFlex lets employees reserve desks in advance or claim desks right away. It adjusts the telephone switch (PBX), so calls ring at the “desk du jour.” DeskFlex includes check-in, point-and-click floor maps, a web browser, a local kiosk, Outlook integration, and conference room scheduling. About Epazz, Inc.:
Epazz, Inc. (Epazz.com), is a leading cloud-based software company that specializes in providing customized cloud applications to the corporate world, higher-education institutions, and the public sector. Epazz BoxesOS™ v3.0 is a complete web-based software package for small- to mid-size businesses, Fortune 500 enterprises, government agencies, and higher education institutions. BoxesOS provides many of the web-based applications organizations would otherwise need to purchase separately. Epazz's other products are K9Sky.com kennel software (K9Sky.com) and the Provitrac applicant tracking system (Provitrac.com). SAFE HARBOR
This is the “Safe Harbor” Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: certain statements contained in this press release are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “may,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” and “continue” (or the negation thereof) or similar terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from future results or those implied by such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that no forward-looking statement is a guarantee of future performance and that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Epazz, Inc. assumes no obligation and has no intention of updating these forward-looking statements. It has no obligation to update or correct information prepared by third parties that are not paid for by Epazz, Inc. Investors are encouraged to review Epazz, Inc.'s public filings on SEC.gov and otcmarkets.com, including its unaudited and audited financial statements and its OTC market filings, which contain general business information about the company's operations, results of operations, and risks associated with the company and its operations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .