 [FILES] 2020 Progress Report on the Second Niger Bridge which comprises 1.6 km long River Niger Bridge; 10.3km Highway, Owerri Interchange and Toll Station. Photo; TWITTER/FMWHNIG  Recalling the rich history of the first Niger Bridge and its significance to commerce and industry in the country, Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria, Lars Richter, said due to population growth in the area, the high rate of urbanisation, and the geometric increase in traffic volumes over the years, the need for a complementing bridge arose. “The second Niger Bridge is part of a new motorway ring which aims to minimise traffic congestion on the old bridge and to strengthen the entire region – it, therefore, strengthens Nigeria generally and its domestic and international trade routes as well,” Richter said.  He added that secondary bridges on the main project are also completed. The remaining works which include soil improvement works, culverts, and drainage, Owerri interchange as well as the tollgate are in progress. “There is no doubt that upon completion, the Second Niger Bridge will ease traffic flow, improve road safety, and create greater opportunities for local residents. It will advance the commercial viability of the immediate area and have a regenerative effect on economic life. “The bridge adds a robust artery to Nigeria’s transportation grid, ensuring a solution fit not only for today, but for Nigeria’s tomorrow because it is being built to cater for the expected growth in traffic over the next 50 years resulting from increased economic activities, population growth, and new urban developments. “As a key infrastructure linking the East and the West of the country and a main artery within the Trans-African highway between Lagos and Mombassa, this bridge is a key national infrastructure that will invigorate the South-East of the nation, promoting greater economic growth and boosting of trade and commerce locally for residents, nationally and internationally,” Richter explained.
   
According to him, the Second Niger Bridge will spur an increase in investments, agriculture, and trade, particularly with the Onitsha Main Market in the region, which is a major trading hub and key commercial capital. The bridge, he emphasised, will allow for improved, more efficient, and quicker connection to Lagos, another key commercial hub. It will surely reduce the hardships of commuters, improve traffic flow and road safety, Richter said.  Richter said Julius Berger has met the identified challenges with strong solutions, taking proper consideration of “the varying water level of the River Niger of up to 12 metre between the dry and rainy seasons”. This consideration, he added, has further been supported by soil improvement measures “including vertical drainage and horizontal dam base reinforcement, which are implemented to guarantee the load-bearing capacity and to accelerate the settlement of the sand dams.” Dr. Richter said that the construction of the Second Niger Bridge is of high priority to President Buhari’s administration and the Federal Ministry of Works. Julius Berger, therefore, understandably has also optimally prioritised the construction works aimed at achieving the best quality as well as successful and timely completion of the bridge for commissioning by the government. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .