  A tale of two septuagenarians
Trump has ruled as a crude populist, often enabling white supremacists. He was overwhelmingly elected by a lily-white majority and still has the support of 57% of white males. He has portrayed immigrants as criminals and shown a total lack of empathy for migrant children separated from their parents and put in cages. Trump has also peddled conspiracy theories, and falsely claimed to have reduced the costs of prescription drugs; to be protecting patients with pre-existing conditions, and to have done more for African Americans than any president since Abraham Lincoln.  Despite his prejudiced jingoism, 71% of white evangelicals have continued to back Trump, revealing a country that has lost its moral compass. One cannot remember an American president who has gone to war with his own intelligence community and the mainstream media. DETROIT, MI - OCTOBER 31: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden speaks during a drive-in campaign rally at Belle Isle on October 31, 2020 in Detroit, Michigan. Biden is campaigning with former President Obama on Saturday in Michigan, a battleground state that President Donald Trump narrowly won in 2016.   Drew Angerer/Getty Images/AFP MONTOURSVILLE, PA - OCTOBER 31: U.S. President Donald Trump dances after speaking to supporters during a rally on October 31, 2020 in Montoursville, Pennsylvania. Donald Trump is crossing the crucial state of Pennsylvania in the last few days of campaigning before Americans go to the polls on November 3rd to vote. Trump is currently trailing his opponent Joe Biden in most national polls.   Eduardo Munoz Alvarez/Getty Images/AFP  The greatest show on earth
Joe Biden would certainly be an improvement on Trump, but Africa should not expect too much from him. He was, after all, Barack Obama’s vice-president for eight years, overseeing the deployment of U.S. troops to about 20 African countries, thus continuing the militarisation of Africa policy initiated by the war-mongering George W. Bush. This was also the administration that launched the botched “regime change” adventure - alongside Britain and France – that has left Libya anarchic for a decade. This is the same duo that legitimised the blood-soaked General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi coup d’état against an elected government in Egypt in 2013. While Obama smiled, Trump has snarled. Obama, however, effectively used false ancestral solidarity with Africa to pursue pernicious policies towards the continent. In many ways, Trump is just a more crude and frank version of previous U.S. administrations, which have historically wreaked havoc across Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America, and Asia.
 
The Economist gives Biden a 92% chance of winning the presidency. If accurate, Trump’s legacy will be four years of division, racism, and xenophobia.  He seems to have run out of gas and appears to be running on empty. This is a tragedy of sound and fury told by an idiot, signifying nothing. Like the Shakespearean King Lear, Trump appears to be a paranoid ruler drifting into senility. The clown has finally run out of tricks, and the circus may be about to leave town. America’s farcical four-year reality show that has simultaneously shocked, spooked, amused, and appalled the world may be coming to a screeching end. Like a deflated hot-air balloon, Trump is finally likely to crash and burn. What an exhausting, entertaining, and eccentric four years this has been. Even by American standards of extravagant razzmatazz and billion-dollar electoral campaigns, this has been the greatest show on earth. If he loses as expected, the world will miss Trump.
Professor Adebajo is Director of the University of Johannesburg’s Institute for Pan-African Thought and Conversation in South Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .