 This illustration picture taken on November 23, 2020 shows a bottle reading “Vaccine Covid-19” and a syringe next to the Pfizer and Biontech logo. – The European Commission has signed five contracts to pre-order vaccines, among which with the U.S.-German company Pfizer-BioNTech (up to 300 million doses). (Photo by JOEL SAGET / AFP)  Yep! That’s the number of lives global immunization programs stopped from being prematurely cut shut by infectious diseases, between 2005 and 2010; it is the number of needless deaths that didn’t happen because of the effectiveness of vaccination. In a 5-year period, vaccines saved 10 million lives and prevented many more millions from developing debilitating illnesses from diseases such as polio, measles, mumps, rubella, varicella, adenovirus, rabies, and hepatitis A. Between 1990 and 2016, global cases of measles fell by 93 percent, diphtheria by 89 percent, and tetanus by 89 percent. Pain, misery, suffering, and disabilities are checkmated because people get vaccinated.  Here’s a simple truth: vaccines are miracles; they are God’s wonders brought to man through science. Since 1963, when vaccination against these infectious diseases became widespread, vaccines have saved more lives than the number of souls saved through the proselytizing of Christianity. As one of the most cost-effective health technologies ever invented, many more people have avoided contracting sicknesses and diseases because of cheap and free vaccinations than the total number of people who have been healed at Church crusades and deliverance meetings. Vaccines have done more to relieve human misery and prevent human suffering than all the world’s faith healers or miracle workers combined.
 
Think about that for a minute.  The confederacy of malcontents has concocted, yet again, dangerous rumours that could severely hinder the uptake of the COVID-19 vaccines and thus prolong the pain and misery the world has faced since the beginning of this pandemic. To be continued tomorrow. Ojumu, MD, MPH, wrote from the US National Institutes of Health. writes on the African Plume Blog: https://www.africanplume.com/; https://twitter.com/PlumeAfrican; E-mail: africanplume@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .