Nigeria must train its youths to be self-sufficient by employing their talents effectively if the country must come out of its current economic and social difficulties, Ms. Idemabasi Mkpokporo of the Okakuro Group has said. Ms. Mkpokporo, whose outfit specialises on sports wears and related activities, believes that the country’s youths can lead the charge to a new Nigeria if given effective leadership and empowerment, adding that Nigeria has enormous talents in all aspects of human endeavor such that it can rise above the current level if the human capital is utilized effectively. Speaking during a one-day leadership training for youths interested in developing their talents to suit the needs of the sports industry, Mkpokporo said sport is the new oil well that is being tapped by many countries to create wealth and also beat unemployment in their societies. Noting that many wealthy and influential people across the world are sports men and women, she advised the youths to avoid vices that could diminish their talents if they wish to rise above mediocrity. “There are many avenues open to Nigeria’s talented youths to become successfully and I call on them to avail themselves current government’s efforts to better the lots of the youth, including the multi-billion naira grant earmarked by the Federal Government for youth development,” she added. Speaking on behalf of the participants, a stakeholder, Tamunosiki Adah, commended the Okakuro Group for its “continuous and sincere contributions to youth development and empowerment,” adding that the group’s contributions to quest for quality education and its periodic youth reorientation programmes have marked it out as a youth friendly organization. “We have been monitoring the group’s initiatives, including its involvement with FC Bulmaro’s Free Football Clinic for post primary schools, which shows that Okakuro is genuine in its intents and will. “We hope that those of whom it needs support from, like government agencies and regulatory authorities, would give them the due support and assistance,” Adah said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .