Six persons were killed and seven others injured in fresh attacks on Jema’a council area of Kaduna State between Saturday and Sunday, the Commissioner for Home Affairs and Internal Security, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed yesterday. In a statement, he said two persons were also missing. He added that the state government received a report of killing and counter-killing in the council and immediately ordered a probe into the circumstances that led to the mayhem. According to Aruwan, the military on Saturday, November 28, 2020, reported to the government that one herder, Isiyaka Saidu of Ungwan Pah village of Jema’a local government was killed by unknown persons with deep knife cut on his head. The commissioner said the military arrested three persons from Ungwan Pah and Ungwan Bido villages in same local council.  He named the trio to include Victor Markus, Gero David and Thankgod Sunday. Restating government’s condemnation of the attacks and the loss of lives, Aruwan stated that security agencies had been directed to bring the perpetrators to justice. The commissioner went on: “According to a security update issued to the citizens, the state government said it received the operational feedback from the military under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) highlighting the unfortunate incidents. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has also directed the military and police to accelerate investigation and ensure diligent prosecution of those responsible for the killing. “Security agencies have further reported that Ungwan Bido village was attacked today, Sunday, November 29, 2020, where some local residents were killed and four injured. Two children are missing. “Governor El-Rufai has sent condolences to the families that lost their loved ones and prayed for the repose of their souls. He has also wished those that sustained injuries speedy recovery. “Kaduna State Government appeals to security agencies, traditional rulers and community leaders to continue to work with the state government to sustain the community peace-building efforts being supported by the Kaduna State Peace Commission. “The state government has directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), to as a matter of urgency, provide relief materials to citizens whose houses were burnt, as well as those injured in the attacks.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .