Lagos Oriental Hotel PHOTO: Getty Images The Western Metal Products Company (WEMPCO) Group, owner of Lagos Oriental Hotel, on Wednesday announced the reopening of the hotel to customers after attacks on the facilities in the aftermath of October #EndSARS protests. The Managing Director, WEMPCO Group, Mr Lawrence Tung, made the announcement in a statement in Lagos by the firm’s Executive Director, Corporate Affairs, Taiwo Alli. Tung reaffirmed the company’s commitment to the Nigerian economy through youth empowerment and continuous delivery of world-class hospitality services to foreign investors as well as other critical national stakeholders. “The WEMPCO Group remains fully committed to supporting Nigeria in her efforts to develop and grow the nation’s economy through diversification. “Our hospitality business, Lagos Oriental Hotel, has been at the forefront of providing international standard services to guests and visitors for over a decade and will continue to do so,” Tung said. He said that facilities which were affected by the unfortunate attack on the hotel in October had been fully restored. Tung said that the security architecture of the hotel had been recalibrated and improved to further enhance its ability to deliver its signature services. The managing director said: “From inception, we spared no efforts in making the Lagos Oriental Hotel a place where you would want to keep visiting over and over again. “In repairing what was damaged in the attack of last month, we took great care to ensure that the international standards our customers have come to expect from us were strictly adhered to.” According to him, the management, to mark the reopening of the hotel, has also launched a promotion tagged “Hello Again”. He said that the promotion which would run from Nov. 16 to Nov. 30, offered a series of discounts to customers. “With the “Hello Again” promotion, customers will pay as low as N45,000 per room, get a welcome bottle of wine, complimentary breakfast for two, complimentary mini-bar and more. “It is a way to say welcome back to customers after the forced closure experienced recently. “The Hello Again promotion is simply Lagos Oriental Hotel saying to customers, we are here and we care for you. “As a company whose founding fathers were committed to the vision of a prosperous Nigeria in the 1960s, WEMPCO Group continues to contribute its quota to critical investments geared toward the development of Nigeria. “At present, WEMPCO Group provides jobs for over 25,000 young Nigerians. The company has also ensured skills transfer and the development of young talent.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .