Cardi B and Offset | Photo – PopSugar Cardi B has officially filed to call off her divorce from her rapper husband Offset less than two months after saying their marriage “irretrievably broken.” The “WAP” rapper filed documents in Georgia to dismiss the divorce that she had set in motion back in September according to a Monday report from TMZ. Cardi B (née Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar), 27, in September filed for divorce at an Atlanta courthouse, reportedly after finding out that Offset, 28, had been unfaithful yet again, TMZ reports. The online news outlet added that “the filing shows it’s a contested divorce.” TMZ also added that she was seeking primary physical custody as well as legal custody of their 2-year-old daughter, Kulture. However, Cardi is now seemingly leaving the door open for a potential split as she filed the dismissal “without prejudice” which means she has the right to refile the divorce at a later date according to the publication. A judge will still have to sign off of the dismissal to make it official but the rap power couple have made it clear that they are back together. The pair publicly rekindled their romance throughout Cardi’s 28th birthday celebrations in Las Vegas and Atlanta in mid-October. This is not the first time the “WAP” rapper and Migos rapper have had issues almost ending their relationship. The pairs’ relationship has been rocked by accusations of Offset’s infidelity from the start. Cardi B and Offset became engaged on October 27, 2017 after Offset famously proposed to her at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia although it was later revealed that they had secretly married a month earlier privately in their bedroom. Three months after the secret wedding, Offset was at the centre of a sex tape cheating scandal after rumours of a video and alleged liaison with another woman surfaced. The “Press” rapper decided to stay with Offset despite the scandal. In December 2018, she announced she was calling it quits but like before, they found their way back into each other’s arms.