Gunmen, at the weekend, abducted Head of Department (HOD), Computer Engineering of Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria, Kaduna State, Bello Atiku, and two children. The school’s rector, Kabir Abdullahi, said the hoodlums stormed the institution around 9:00p.m. on the said day. He said: “I was in Kaduna when the Chief Security Officer (CSO) of the college called to inform me of the attack. “It is true that suspected armed bandits kidnapped one of my staff, Engineer Bello Atiku, who is Head of Department, Computer Engineering of the school. “He was also kidnapped along with two children to an unknown destination.” He added that another employee, Sunusi Hassan, was shot in the hand during the incident, and is currently hospitalised. The administrator attributed the incident to the porous nature of the institution. Abdullahi appealed to the host community to remain calm, as security operatives were investigating the matter. Also confirming the incident, the police spokesman in the state, ASP Muhammed Jalige, said the force was on top of the situation. HOWEVER, the Katsina Police Command has arrested15 bandits and recovered 495 animals at Dutsinma and Batsari council areas of the state. In a statement regarding the weekend’s incident, the force spokesperson, SP Gambo Isah, said 228 cows and 267 sheep were rescued. He stated: “On 13/11/2020 at about 08:00hrs, based on credible intelligence, Area Commander, Dutsinma led a combine team of policemen and vigilantes to Tsaunin Bala village, Danmusa LGA of Katsina State after information that bandits, numbering 10, and armed with AK-47 rifles, had escorted some suspects and rustled domestic animals. “Consequently, the team succeeded in arresting 11 suspected bandits, led by one Alhaji Adamu (popularly known as ‘Shantal’), and recovering 185 cows and 54 sheep. “On 13/11/2020 at about 14:40hrs, DPO Batsari led Operations Puff Adder, Sharan Daji, and vigilance group on patrol along Dankar-Dangayya villages in Batsari LGA of Katsina State and intercepted three suspected bandits with 43 cows and 213 sheep suspected to be rustled. “In the course of investigation, the suspects confessed that the animals belong to one Dahiru Musa, a notorious bandit, who was later arrested and could not give a satisfactory account as to the ownership of the animals. Investigation is ongoing.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .