To benefit from $12.3tr global economic output 
Barring any unforeseen circumstances, Nigeria is expected to fully deploy Fifth Generation (5G) mobile network technology by 2022. Already, the country has carried out some trials in 2019, which were successful. But the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), in a draft consultation document for deployment of 5G Mobile technology in the country, released yesterday, envisages a two-stage deployment approach with the phase one based on non-standalone approach and the phase two based on the stand-alone system. With the assurance that there are no health challenges related to 5G, NCC said the phase one was planned to commence in 2021 while the phase two deployment, which will rely on new spectrum allocations, was planned to commence in 2022. The expectation is that by 2025, the technology would have covered major urban areas in the country. The commission, in the 62-page document, revealed that already there are about 92 commercial launches of 5G networks in 38 countries across the world spread across all regions as at July 2020. The countries, including  Netherlands, US.A, UK, China, Canada, Romania, South Africa, Qatar and Australia, have all unveiled commercial 5G technology deployment. According to the NCC, there is a clear ambition to ensure that the Digital Economy Policy of the Federal Government is accomplished, and one of the instruments for the realization of the dream is availability of a robust information and communication network in the country. The commission said having identified the unique benefits and the role 5G can play in accomplishing the objectives of the digital economy, it needed to outline a plan that will facilitate the deployment of the technology in Nigeria. The telecoms regulator explained that the 5G communication technology is the next evolution of the mobile communications technology, which is capable of creating new opportunities for growth in the economy by enabling new and dynamic business models and opening up new opportunities and markets. It also provides tremendous improvement in interpersonal communications with several innovations and services. NCC, which assured that the Federal Government will provide an enabling environment for 5G deployment, however, said the Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) will determine their own deployment strategies subject to alignment with the approved polices and other regulatory instruments in force. NCC said 5G technology, which has been projected would enable $12.3 trillion of global economic output in 2035, will initiate several new changes in mobile connectivity with an enormous capacity to boost productivity and grow the economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .