Bayelsa  State Governor, Douye Diri, yesterday, presented the 2021 budget estimate of N290.2b to the state House of Assembly for consideration and approval. Presenting the “Budget of Growth,” Diri noted that the outgoing year has been challenging due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic and flooding, but expressed the hope that 2021 would be a year of progress and prosperity for the state. Giving a breakdown of the sectorial allocations, he said N34b was earmarked for Works and Infrastructure, while Education got N25b, Health (N5b), Agriculture (N11.3b), Trade and Investment (N500m) and Environment (N3.3b) He also said personnel cost would gulp N66.6b, capital expenditure would take N80.017b, while overhead would gulp N66.185b. Governor Diri assured that his administration would ensure the transparent management of the state’s finances at all times, while ensuring that the 2021 budget would give Bayelsa people good reasons to face the future with confidence. He pledged to ensure that every sector of the state’s economy was positively impacted, stressing that he would not take the mandate given to him and his team to serve the state for granted.He commended the House of Assembly for its support and pledged to work closely with the lawmakers in the interest of the state. “This budget defines our focus and steps in the new financial year and our ambition to diversify the economy, prioritise education, empower our youths to embrace agriculture, industrialise Bayelsa and create jobs that will bring prosperity to all. “My profound gratitude goes to the people of Bayelsa State for their stamina, doggedness, sacrifices, patience and partnership that they have accorded our government, as we have made some difficult choices to get the state out of inclement terrains,” he said. Responding, Speaker of the House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere, noted that the budget was achievable and commended Governor Diri’s desire to bring prosperity to Bayelsa people. He acknowledged the challenges caused by COVID-19, but expressed hope that the newyear would be better and pledged the lawmakers’ support for the executive to make life better for the people of Bayelsa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .