Abiru canvases justice for victims of Lekki shooting
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, listen to the yearnings of the Nigerian youths. President of CAN, Rev. Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, admonished Nigerian youths not to despair giving many challenges facing Nigeria, adding that the Nigerian youths were formidable and charged the Federal Government to adequately cater for them. Ayokunle, who stated this during the weekend at the consecration ceremony of Rev. (Dr.) James Bayo Owoyemi as President of the United Apostolic Church of Christ (UACC) worldwide in Akure, also appealed to the youths to give the Federal Government more time to plan. He said the Nigerian youths have woken up to the fact that they were not a liability to society, adding: “The government should not trivialise the voice of the youth, but ensure that it makes concrete plans for them in its development programmes, especially in creating employment for the youths. “With the way they have spoken, I want also want to advise the youths to be patient because Rome was not built in a day. They also need to allow the government some time to plan for them.” He, however, encouraged Nigerians to be steadfast in their prayers to engender a better country, saying: “If any year is good we need to praise God and if otherwise, we need to pray to make the year better for us. The country’s situation has shown that power belongs to God. Speaking, Owoyemi appealed to the Federal Government to prioritise the welfare of the Nigerian youths, adding: “The youths have spoken and government should listen and rise to its responsibility. We expect positive changes in the country after the youths uprising.” MEANWHILE, candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Lagos East Senatorial District bye-election, Tokunbo Abiru, has backed government’s decision to investigate attacks on #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate and demanded justice for the victims. Abiru, who is immediate past Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Polaris Bank Limited, also assured youths that their agenda for the #EndSARS protests would be a major part of his legislative priority if elected into the Senate. He expressed support for the victims of Lekki incident in a statement titled: “A Message to Lagos East Youths,” issued yesterday, noting that the #EndSARS protesters were peaceful and responsible throughout their protests. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .