State clarifies schools’ resumption, extends SS3 classes by one hour Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, has said that his administration would rely more on Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR) as its primary source of financing its budget. He also said that the state would avoid unnecessary tax burden on citizens. Abiodun, who disclosed this, yesterday, at the virtual consultative meeting with the representatives of Ogun East Senatorial District in his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, on the 2021-2023 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and 2021 budget, urged the people of the state to support his administration by discharging their civic responsibilities. The governor, who also noted that his administration would sustain payment of salaries, pensions and gratuities within limited resources, said that his administration would carry out downward review of overhead expenses at reasonable percentage against revenue generation prospects of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) in the state. Abiodun, while noting that the recent payment of the new minimum wage was in line with the agreement reached with the organised labour, said government would give utmost priority to education, health, agriculture and road infrastructure, as it prepares for next year’s budget. Meanwhile, the state government has clarified earlier statement on schools’ resumption, stating that the existing schedule remains.A statement by the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, said that while the staggered school system would be maintained, “additional hour has been added to the duration of stay in school for SS 3 students. “They are to be in school from noon – 4:00 p.m. to prepare them adequately for the 2020/2021 WASSCE.”
“Primaries 1-3 and JS 1-3 are to be in school from 8:00-11:00 a.m.; Primaries 4-6 and SS 1- 2 are to be in school from 12:00-3:00 p.m. while SS 3 will be in school from 12:00-4:00 p.m. “Early Childhood Care and Development Education (ECCDE/ pre-primary) in public schools are to resume from 8:00 – 11:00 a.m.,” the statement said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .