Vow to resort to nationwide protests amid strike
The Students’ Union Presidents of universities in South-West has given the Federal Government a seven-day ultimatum to resolve the lingering strike of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), vowing to resort to nationwide protests and agitations if the impasse is not resolved. The students’ presidents, including Wisdom Oluwaseun Okoko of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Olamide Olabiyi of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso;  Michael Awoyemi of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State; Abiodun Oloyede of the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Ogun State; Olusegun Akeju of University of Ibadan (UI), Lekan Abbul-Azeez Soneye of Tai Solarin College of Education, Ogun State, among others spoke at a press conference held at the Students Union Building, UI. They lamented that students were the ones bearing the brunt of the industrial imbroglio, which is eight-month old. Oloyede, who addressed journalists on behalf of others, said: “We, the great students of the federation, hereby demand an immediate end to the incessant ASUU strike, adequate funding of the educational sector and prioritisation of education as key to sustainable growth and development.  We request an end to the ongoing strike by the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU). The struggle of ASUU should never be undermined as we all truly know that a revitalisation and improvement in the quality of infrastructure and regulation of payment of salaries is needed. On his part, President, UNILORIN Student Union, Okoko, said: “ASUU strike is killing us. We won’t fold our hands and allow them to ruin our life and future. The Federal Government and ASUU are putting their interests forward. Nobody is putting the interest of the students as a priority. We have come to put the interest of our students as a priority. “We can’t continue to keep quiet. ASUU and government are taking us for a ride. ASUU is fighting for its interest. The earlier they respond to our demands, the better for us.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .