 Seyi Makinde  He, however, warned Makinde against passing comments on issues he had not been briefed on. Olowofela, who served as Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology during Ajimobi’s tenure, noted that Makinde should remember that life is ethereal and he will also become a former governor sooner or later. He said: “Dear Governor Seyi Makinde, my attention has been drawn to your comments on Oba Akinbiyi Model School. “I want to provide the following information so that you will let Ajimobi rest in peace.
1. The model schools were supposed to be six ab initio.
2. The initial arrangement was that the contractor will fund the projects and government will pay later.
3 When it was obvious that the “financial” of the contractor cannot provide the fund, government decided to construct three model schools and fund it based on milestones achieved.
4. At a point, it became obvious that the pace at which the projects were going, they may not be completed during the administration of Ajimobi. 5. At one of the cabinet’s meeting, the contracts were terminated and the Ministry of Works was directed to take over the completion of the projects (check the cabinet record for this)
6. Ministry of Works took over the construction of
(a) Oba Akinbiyi Model School and (b) Islamic Model School while that of Shaki could not be completed within the time-frame left.
 (7) All these records can be provided by the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Works.” “Dear Governor Seyi Makinde, I believe strongly that you ought to look at all these and possibly asked for detail reports (from both Ministry of Education and Works) before your derogatory comments on the late Ajimobi. Let me add for your information and urgent attention that Ogbomoso Model School (started during the Alao-Akala regime completed by Ajimobi is 99 per cent ready). Kindly do the needful to let the place be put into good use. “While I am not appealing to you to cover any shady deal, if any, it is immoral and ungovernor-like to make press comments on issues that you have not been adequately briefed. “Dear Mr. Governor, everything in life is ephemeral, you will one day leave the post but now that you are there, do your best and leave the rest. “I wish you the best in the difficult but interesting task of leadership.
 “Let Ajimobi rest in peace.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .