 The Vincent Okumagba-led Super Eagles Supporters Club at a match venue  Okumagba, who had been away in Canada with members of his family, arrived in Nigeria earlier this week to prepare Supporters Club for the 2021 AFCON qualifier between the Super Eagles and Leone Stars of Sierra Leone in Benin City only to be told that fans and journalists were banned from the venue in compliance with COVID-19 restriction. He told The Guardian shortly before the match yesterday that the Super Eagles Supporters Club was fully mobilised by Aiteo Group for the match, adding that the company had laid a solid foundation for Nigerian football. “Even before now, Aiteo Group has been supporting us. The company has demonstrated its love for Nigerian football at all levels. Apart from being a major sponsor of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Aiteo Group has extended its support to the supporters, and we appreciate them. We will continue to play our role as the main supporters club of the Super Eagles,” Okumagba stated. In April 2017, Aiteo Group, which is Nigeria’s foremost energy solutions company, splashed a whopping sum of N2.5billion on Nigerian football in a 5-year partnership deal. The sponsorship, the first in Nigeria’s sports history, made Aiteo Group the official optimum partner of the NFF. Okumagba stated yesterday that the role of the Super Eagles Supporters Club is to motivate the players whenever they are on national duty saying: “Football brings joy to millions of Nigerians. Our duty is to cheer the players while they are inside the pitch. The songs and music we render from the stand give the players extra energy. And by partnering with us, Aiteo Group made the job easier for us. That is why we are commending the company for the support it has rendered to Nigerian football since 2017. Our prayer is for the company to grow from strength to strength.” Okumagba continues: “Aiteo Group is breaking grounds in all spheres, and we (members of Super Eagles Supporters Club) share its vision of excellence in Nigerian football. Any support you render to our club goes a long way. Between now and next year, there are so many national assignments for us, and Aiteo Group has assured us of its continuous support. That is why the company is one of Africa’s fastest-growing energy leaders.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .