The Nigeria Guild of Editors (NGE) has lauded Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for developing projects in rural areas, noting that tackling poverty and developmental deficits at the grassroots will improve the wellbeing of the people. National President of NGE, Mustapha Isha, stated this during dinner the governor organised for members of the NGE at Government House, Port Harcourt. Isha said the NGE was pleased that the Rivers State government was investing huge resources in the development of rural areas. “On the road to Opobo, I saw the piling of sand and I said the governor is burying money here. But someone said he is burying money for people to drive home. When people who don’t understand the South-South terrain hear the cost of a kilometre of road in the region, they say the government has inflated the contract sum. “We drove through inner roads, not just the main roads. Development is now spreading across the entire state, not just the capital city of Port Harcourt, but across the three senatorial districts of the state,” he said. Isha commended the Rivers State Cassava Processing initiative, which he said, would empower farmers in the state and tackle poverty in the rural areas. Speaking on projects like Rivers State Cassava Processing factory at Afam, Sakpewa-Bori-Kono road, and the Ogoni-Andoni-Opobo Unity Road, Ambrose Oko, said by not concentrating on developing in Port Harcourt, Wike was changing the narrative of governance. “When governors do things, they are usually in the capital cities, but we went to see inner roads from Andoni to Opobo. Your legacy is legendary,” he said. Oko explained that his team was impressed when they arrived Opobo and were informed that people drove to the town last December for the first time courtesy of Governor Wike. Secretary-General of NGE, Mary Atolagbe, while speaking during the tour of the 21.3 kilometers Odufor-Akpoku-Umuoye road in Etche Council Area, the 16.85 kilometers Rumuji-Ibaa-Isiokpo road in Emohua and Ikwerre council areas, the Abonnema Ring Road and Degema Zonal Hospital, among others, lauded Wike for his commitment to the development of the rural areas. On his part, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr. Tammy Danagogo, explained that detractors of the state government have often tried to paint a distorted picture of the reality on the ground. Danagogo noted that before Wike assumed office, his predecessor had boasted that he would not be able to get money to pay salaries and embark on infrastructure development. “But, contrary to expectations, Wike has decisively tackled development challenges such as the Abonnema Ring Road and many others. If it were not for his doggedness, I don’t think the story would have been what it is today,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .