Akeredolu to present 2021 budget on Friday 
Barely 24 hours after the Ondo State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Kolawole Olawoye, was sacked, the Deputy Speaker, Ogundeji Iroju, was impeached by the Assembly. Iroju, who represents Odigbo Constituency I, was impeached at the plenary session yesterday and replaced with Samuel Tona Aderotoye from Odigbo Constituency II, who is occupying the office for the second time. These had led to mixed reactions across the state as many people queried the propriety and illegality behind the impeachment that followed the sack of Olawoye despite court rulings that ordered the reinstatement of the lawmaker. A reliable source within government, who pleaded anonymity, had said that Olawoye, who is the governor’s friend and kinsman, was accused of gross insubordination to Akeredolu. Also, The Guardian learnt that the impeachment of  Iroju was signed by 20 out of 26 lawmakers of the Assembly; and may not be unconnected with the botched attempt to impeach the deputy governor. The Speaker, Bamidele Oleyelogun hinged the impeachment on gross misconduct that brought disrepute to the House. Reacting to the development, the immediate past lawmaker representing Irele/Okitipupa Federal Constituency, Mike Omogbehin, condemned the impeachment process, saying it was a rape on democracy. Meanwhile, Governor Akeredolu will present the 2021 budget to the House on Friday while the appointed successor of the sacked attorney-general, Charles Titiloye, was directed to appear before the Assembly for screening tomorrow. While a social critic and influencer in the state, Gbenga Ajongbolo, argued that the Assembly erred in the impeachment process, he accused the House of forgery to meet up with the constitutionally required number to impeach Iroju. But the House Committee Chairman on Information, Gbenga Omole, recounted that a parliamentary resolution indicted Itoju of gross misconduct inimical to the progress of the House, saying that the resolution was signed by 20 members of the House in line with the Standing Order of the House and was adopted by the lawmakers at plenary. He said: “In the meantime, the House is yet to receive a copy of the court judgment on the suspended lawmakers.” Meanwhile, Governor Akeredolu will present the 2021 budget to the House on Friday while the appointed successor of the sacked attorney-general, Charles Titiloye, was directed to appear before the Assembly for screening tomorrow. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .