 Wike. Photo: TWITTTER/GOVWIKE  He cautioned that the government would leave no stone unturned in dealing with anyone who breaches the peace and security in the state with cult activities and associated violence and killings. In a statewide broadcast, Wike explained that the decision to impose the curfew was taken after the State Security Council meeting in Port Harcourt yesterday. He explained that the Rivers State Government was disturbed over the recent upsurge of cult activities and related violence and killings in the Okoro-Nu-Odu flyover in Obio/Akpor Council Area. The governor stated that the government had constantly warned misguided youths against engaging in cultism because of its anti-social effect on society. “As part of measures to tackle the menace, the government has imposed a 24-hour curfew for two weeks on the area from the Saint Emmanuel Anglican Church, Rumuokoro to the Rumuodomaya Slaughter and daily market with effect from Monday, November 23, 2020 (today). “Consequently, no trading, human or vehicular movement is allowed within the restricted areas until further notice. Only staff and vehicles of Julius Berger Nigeria Limited are exempted from the curfew and restriction of movement so that construction work on the Okoro-Nu-Odu flyover is not stalled.” Wike directed security agencies to enforce compliance with the curfew, arrest, and prosecute any person, trader, or vehicle that violates the restrictions. “We wish to warn that community leaders that allow cultism and related activities to thrive in their communities would be treated as collaborators to the crimes and will be dealt with accordingly. “We urge all citizens to be part of the efforts to curb cultism in the state by reporting any suspicious cult activity, including gatherings and initiations in and around their neighbourhoods to the security agencies for immediate action,” he said. He disclosed that the state government would construct the seventh flyover in Port Harcourt to traverse Ikokwu to Azikiwe Street and appealed to residents of Port Harcourt and Obio-Akpor council areas to bear with the state government over the traffic challenges they might encounter due to the ongoing construction of the Oro-Abali and other flyovers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .