To build N50m hostel for girls secondary school Former Governor of Abia State and Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, has urged people of the Southeast region to forget their agitations for restructuring of the country and quest for the presidency in 2023. Kalu spoke in Umuahia, the state capital, when he paid a condolence visit to representative of Umuahia East Constituency,  Chukwudi Apugo, in the State House of Assembly, who lost his mother recently. He lampooned the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, for rejecting his proposal to work for the emergence of president of Igbo extraction, but kept dissipating their energy on restructuring. Kalu, who represents Abia North Senatorial District in the Senate under the All Progressives Congress (APC), however, said at the right time, Ndigbo would get their fair share in Nigeria with one of their own as president of the country. In another development, he announced that he would build a N50m hostel for students of Holy Rosary Girls Secondary School, Umuahia, the state capital. He made the pledge as chief launcher and special guest of honour at the ground breaking and fund raising ceremony for a Multi-Purpose Hall in the school organised by its old students. He also announced N5m cash donation to the school with a pledge to procure 10 sewing machines for the school’s skills acquisition department. Kalu pointed out that he attended the event on a personal invitation extended to him by the Catholic Bishop of Umuahia Diocese, Bishop Lucius Iwejuru Ugorji, which event was chaired by Kalu’s former aide, Dr. Victor Oye, who is currently National Chairman, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). “I have special love for this school and I have made it very clear that I will give my full support. My first donation for the advancement of women, which started with the girl-child education, is my pledge to build a new hostel for this school and the building will be named after, Bishop Ugorji. “My second donation is to support the school with some money to contribute to what they are doing. When the hostel is completed more students will have access to additional accommodation,” he stated. He urged the Old Girls Association of the school not to relent in their quest to ensure that the project is actualized, adding that he would donate 10 sewing machines to the students to encourage their skill acquisition department.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .