 Winner of the maiden DStv Premium Golf Day star prize, Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo (middle), receiving his trophy from Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. Tope Oshunkeye,  at Ikeja Golf Club… on Saturday.  <br />  It was a day when DSTV Premium Golf Day joined the Ikeja Golf Club’s calendar and like everything Multichoice, there was something for everybody that graced the event. And then, there was great golf. The competition had 98 players in action, but the honour of winning the first title went to Dr. Ogunbiyi Ogunbanjo, who won with a net score of 65 to claim the ultimate prize, a business class ticket, and accommodation for a weekend stay in a five star hotel in Dubai. Mr. Remi Olukoya, with a net score of 67, was the first runner-up, claiming a business class ticket and a weekend stay at a five-star hotel in Rwanda, while Mr. Rasheed Adebisi was the second runner-up with a net score of 69. He got a weekend stay in a five-star hotel in Lagos. Mrs. Linda Obieze won the women category with the same score. She got a golf bag for her efforts. Other winners were Messrs. Femi Ajala, who was rewarded with a 55-inch television set for the longest drive; and Ife Muritala, who claimed a golf bag for the nearest to the pin (hole 17). At the cocktail that followed the action on the course, an elated captain of Ikeja Golf Club, Mr. Oladimeji Durojaiye, thanked the sponsors for choosing the club for the sponsorship initiative, adding that golfers were very delighted for the gesture.
 
“We thank the DStv team for bringing such initiative to Ikeja Golf Club. This is the first tournament and the feedback from players have been very impressive. We sincerely hope this will become an annual event,” Durojaiye said. He revealed that the organisers go a total of 500 entries, but were forced to trim the number in line with the physical distancing requirement of the COVID-19 protocols. He added that golfers from as far as Ekiti State participated in the event. In reply, Head of Marketing, MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. Tope Oshunkeye, who stood in for CEO, MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. John Ugbe, said DStv is happy to be associated with the event, explaining that it was a way of showing appreciation to subscribers on the DStv Premium package. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .