Ten suspected kidnappers and sea robbers have been nabbed in Calabar by the army and police, just as two persons in a different incident were kidnapped between Friday and yesterday. The Guardian investigation revealed that an average of one person is kidnapped everyday in the capital city, raising concerns on its security status, and resulting in its being nicknamed “Come and live and be at risk (Calabar). The men of the Sector 4 Land Components, Operation Delta Safe (OPDS) of the Nigerian Army in Eburutu Barracks, Calabar, paraded eight kidnappers and sea robbers aged between 18 and 33, arrested during series of operations. It was gathered that some of the suspects are ex-convicts, while others had been on the wanted list of security agencies in the state. Briefing newsmen at the handing and taking over ceremony, held at Ebrutu Cantonment in Calabar, Commander Sector 4 OPDS and Component Operations Delta Safe, Col. Omobo Idoniboye-Obu, said the arrest was done recently by the army to keep the state safe. He listed items recovered to include N4m, two pump action guns, one Barrett pistol, 10 Cartridges, six 9mm Ammo and N2m, which were handed over to the Police, while the truck load of diesel concealed under sack bags was handed over to operatives of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Among the suspected kidnappers and armed robbery suspects were Ita Oku Ndiyo, 27, 32-year-old Atuo Kenneth Martins, 28-year-old Bassey Effiom Okon, 33-year-old Idang Anwakang and several others, who robbed Mr. Jan and Mr. Bobby (Cameroonians) on October 9 and 20, in Ikom LGA of the state. The suspects and the exhibits were handed over to DSP Ime Uyanga, who represented the State’s Commissioner of Police, while the truck was handed over to Mr. Victor Edet Ikang on behalf of the EFCC. The Army Commander said the syndicate admitted to robbing the Cameroonians of N4m. But in a brief interview, some of the suspects denied committing any crime, saying, “We went for burial and they arrested us. They beat us mercilessly. We were arrested at the Creek Town beach, while coming back from a burial. We were not arrested with the exhibits.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .