Zulum Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state, yesterday, declared that what the Northeast requires to end the prevailing “madness” afflicting the area was more of political solution and not military engagement. Zulum, who spoke to newsmen after he met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, stated that the kinetic measures currently being applied by the authorities would not be enough to solve the security challenges in the area. The governor also said the youth in the affected states must be given enablement by way of empowerment at all levels of government so as to be able to live a meaningful life. He specifically called for the creation of jobs for the youth and the provision of enabling environment for distraught citizens to return to their ancestral homes to resume their normal lives. His words: “The kenetic measures will not solve the problem; there must be some political solutions. Among the political solutions are the issues of supporting the Nigerian youth with a means to earning their livelihood. “As I have earlier said, there is need for us to address the root causes of the problem. One of the greatest root causes of the insurgency is poverty. So, government at all levels need to create job opportunities for the youth and enabling environment for the poor to have access to their farmlands. That is what I have been advocating since I assumed the mantle of leadership as governor of Borno State. “We want to ensure that people return to their communities, people have access to their farmlands, their livestock farms, aquaculture farms. I think this is the only solution; military solution alone will never solve the problem. “This is very important as you have said. One of the conditions for returning is to ensure adequate security in the localities. Government has engaged the Nigerian military with a view to determining the situation at the various locations that we have provided for resettlement and they have written to us to say that we are good to go. “Government has started resettlement of people to their ancestral homes. We have received tremendous support from the Nigerian military, from the paramilitary, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and its agencies especially NEMA, North East Development Commission and others. “The gradual return of people to their respective localities is a symbol of peace. So, far so good we are doing well; we need continuous support from the Nigerian military. We need sustainable support to ensure that this madness is brought to an end.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .