 Governor Godwin Obaseki PHOTO: Twitter  Edo state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, yesterday, solicited support of the media and other stakeholders in the actualisation of his second term vision for sustainable development of the state. Briefing Journalists in Benin City, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communication and Orientation, Joses Sede, said Obaseki was ready to transform the state for the better. Highlighting the governor’s achievements in his first term, Sede said Obaseki was poised to giving Edo people more infrastructure, socio-economic, human capital and technological development in his Make Edo Great Again (MEGA) agenda. “During the inauguration of his second term in office, Obaseki declared his focus for the next four years. This is the reason for this meeting, which is to seek objective reportage of government’s policies and programmes from the media in the next four years and to solicit constructive criticisms for redirection while fulfilling the MEGA agenda. “I, therefore, wish to solicit the support of all traditional rulers, religious leaders, civil society, trade unions, student bodies and the media towards the actualisation of the sustainable development of Edo State,” he stated. Besides, the Edo State Police Command has charged its officers on the need to confront criminals and police the citizens without bitterness in spite of unprovoked attacks on its personnel and police divisions during the #EndSARS protests. Commissioner of Police (CP), Johnson Kokumo, who stated this during the inauguration of 70 vigilantes in Ikopaba-Okha Council Area of the state, however, said policemen would no longer fold their hands and allow criminals to maim or kill them.
ALSO, Obaseki has earmarked N11.3b to strengthen the state’s healthcare system and provide quality healthcare services to Edo people in 2021. He explained that while the state government had earmarked N1b for contribution to the State Health Insurance Scheme, N10.3b would deployed to strengthen the critical institutions and systems required to provide affordable and quality healthcare services to the people. In a statement, he reassured that his administration would build a 250 primary health care centres in the 18 council areas of the state in the next 18 months. MEANWHILE, the governor also disclosed plans to engage the Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, to develop required manpower to drive the state urban and regional planning initiatives. Obaseki noted that the initiative would leverage the facilities and resources in the Polytechnic’s Centre for Geospatial and Information Science (CGIS) and the School of Environment Studies (SES, among others, to drive the initiatives. On his part, Rector of the Polytechnic, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, said the institution was ready and capable of providing bespoke servicing for the development of the state, as it formed part of its core mandate on community impact. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .