Ex-workers of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO), have issued the management and the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), a two-week ultimatum to explain the status of their N1.13 billion or face legal action.
 
The aggrieved ex-workers numbering over 700 have engaged the services of human rights lawyer, Joe Nwokedi, to demand the payment of their terminal and severance benefits. And barring a round-table meeting between the ex-workers, NAHCO and BPE in two weeks, Nwokedi shall also be taking the matter up with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), and Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), for intervention.
  
The Guardian recently reported the face-off between the NAHCO management and their former workers over a N1.13 billion-worth severance package paid to the workers after the company was privatised in 2005. While the management claimed that the sum was a loan and due for repayment by the government, the workers said NAHCO had no legitimate claim to their benefits.  “When this matter came up, we looked at it, studied it and discovered that there was injustice done to the former workers. There are so many issues that were hazy that they could not clarify. There were so many areas that needed so many answers. Those answers were not provided. The answers were not satisfactory. We have actually gone to PTAD on the money that our clients are supposed to have been paid.
 
“As a matter of fact, they made it so clear to us that the money they are paying us is not from them, which is N1.13 billion that was mapped out for them as their severance package after several years of diligent service at NAHCO. The question now is where is this money?
 
“They could not answer the question as to the whereabouts of N1.13 billion. It was on record that it was mapped out for the severance package of our clients. That now led us to BPE because they mentioned BPE and in the course of our deliberations with them, they availed us with documents from BPE directing them as to when NAHCO was privatised,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .