 Group Human Resources Manager, Ultimus Holdings, Chinedu Eboh (left); Vice President, David Ewemie; President/Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Ifeanyi Odii and Marketing and Communications Manager, Colette Amaeshi during the official launch of the company in Lagos on Wednesday.  This was disclosed by the President/CEO of Ultimus Holdings, Dr. Ifeanyi Chukwuma Odii, during a media parley in Lagos, yesterday. Odii confirmed that Nigeria, and indeed Africa holds great potential for economic growth and as such would continue to play a leading role in harnessing the opportunities that could make the continent an economic superpower. He said: “We are quite optimistic about Nigeria and African economies gave the abundance of available opportunities. As a business, we would continue to explore different areas in the rapidly evolving growing economies, not only to make a statement as a brand but to contribute to further expansion. Moving forward, we would be making massive investments in sub-Saharan Africa that are targeted at addressing the peculiar needs of the African market,” he added. He added that Ultimus is strategically seeking opportunities for new businesses in strategic sectors, which would guarantee huge returns on investment while also acquiring businesses that visibly deliver solid value for its esteemed customers. “Currently, Africa remains a strategic market for our business. We cannot afford to relax because we are aware of the impact significant investments would have on business growth and socio-economic development in Africa as a whole. We believe investment in critical sectors of the economy would not only create jobs for the youths but also help to improve the economic prosperity of the continent as a whole,” Odii said. He, therefore, called on the Nigerian Government, and its counterparts in different economies within the continent to continue to support expansion plans by creating the enabling environment for business to thrive.
Also speaking, Vice President, Ultimus Holdings, David Ewemie, equally expressed confidence in the available prospects particularly, based on the legacy of growth and a strong brand built over the years. According to him, the company, which is fast becoming a household name in Africa, currently boasts four subsidiaries in its portfolio, including The Classroom, Parla Di Lusso Ultimus Construction, and Viarmor.
The Classroom is the retail trading subsidiary of the company that caters to a mix of ambiance fitting solutions which bring interior and exterior spaces to life. Parla Di Lusso on the other hand is one of the many luxury properties to be developed by Ultimus Holdings, and built by Ultimus Construction, while Viarmor Healthcare, is a fully integrated medical support company that offers a wide range of medical technologies. “Our strategic partnership with renowned global brands gives us an innovative edge in our quest to make lives better by providing innovative medical equipment and efficient healthcare services for everyone. Some of our devices – include Air purifiers & Emergency mobile ventilators.” Ewemie said. The Marketing and Communications Manager, Ultimus Holdings, Colette Amaeshi, noted that “Our people-centric philosophy buttresses our commitment to being a great place to work for employees as we consistently adhere to global workplace practices and standards. Our core values are strategically set to serve as the major tools for us to achieve this”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .