Coalition of Civil Societies has applauded the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for embarking on various business ventures to support viable and proactive intervention policies of the Federal Government. They cited Accelerated Agriculture Development Scheme, Agri-business, Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme, Real Sector Support Facility, Credit Support for Health Sector and Creative Industry Financing Initiative, among such ventures. Speaking at a National Economic Summit organised by the Coalition, its National President, Etuk B. Williams, commended the CBN for its programmes, geared towards ameliorating the economic challenges, and moving the country forward.
 
Williams, who spoke on, “Post-COVID-19: Understanding the Economic Interventions of CBN and the Roles of Civil Society Groups,” explained that this became expedient, as Nigeria is in dire need of a positive atmosphere to revamp the economy. “These efforts have further demonstrated the government’s willingness to alleviate the sufferings of the citizens resulting from unemployment and poverty. It is also aimed at enlightening the youths on how to access various interventions.”
 
While lauding the CBN and urging other agencies to get involved in more advocacy programmes, Williams advised they used credible civil societies to reach out to the people on these policies and the benefits they would benefit from the intervention.
 
He said: “We want to generate fresh narratives that will help shape the perceptions of Nigerians on the impact and efficacy of several monetary and palliative policies during the lockdown period introduced to address the resultant economic challenges. “It is our expectation that this summit would step up the scope and impact of the many intervention policies of the CBN on businesses and households, and also suggest to the government on how to sustain it and make it accessible.” Meanwhile, in a communiqué, the group called on Nigerians to interrogate government actions and policies, saying there is a need to train civil societies to enlighten the citizens on the government politicies and intervention. “There is a need for behavioural change among the citizens toward properly understanding government policies. The civil societies should collaborate to discourage ethnic divide and promote unity.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .