From Knock on Wood II to Meet the Dudus’ II and Phases of Reflection, the arthouse has kept the circuit busy since September when it had its maiden show after COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. Alexis Galleries, no doubt, is enriching the dialogue on African arts. In its fourth outing, the gallery’s new show, which opened yesterday, is a range of shared heritage,  explored through a contemporary mirror. The works on view converse with one another through a subtle language. The show, which ends on November 7, is themed 9ja Life, a joint exhibition of painting and mix-media. The show promises to be intriguing for both virtual and live view. For Patty Chidiac-Mastrogiannis, Curator, Alexis Galleries, the show presents the viewer, virtual and and live,  opportunity to interrogate concepts that  are native to art.  She reveals, “art in most cases create awareness and educate the society at large. Art helps them to see what is there but not easily perceived. Therefore it is all about self-expression for the artist.” In this show, “Adedotun Fashina and Seye Morakinyo creatively express their thoughts and views on issues that the society react partly positive and partly negative towards,” she says. Fashina, a self-taught artist, who draws inspiration from his environment, people and everyday life in urban cities, is obsessed with cities filled with slums and shantytowns overflowed with crowds. He presents works that interrogate and highlight the major challenges faced in urban cities. Through his works, he hopes to shed light on chaotic and unavoidable processes of
urbanisation in a globalised and over populated world. Morakinyo, on his part, is a prolific contemporary artist, who works with colours and fabric. He is an impressionist painter who draws his inspiration from his environment and everyday activities of an average citizen. He paints every mundane theme ranging from the crowd to the solitary. His body of works in this exhibition comprises works in line with the exhibition’s theme. Chidiac-Mastrogiannis says, “9ja Life isn’t just a show exhibition of two different styles, it is giving correction to ills and ideas that the society react partly positive and partly negative towards through art. It is an exhibition of art that highlight the major challenges faced in the urban cities and creative representation of human and its space.” Just like in its previous show, Alexis Galleries will donate part of its proceeds to charity. In this particular show, “we are partnering with Little Sisters of the Poor, a non-governmental organisation that offers needy elders of every race and religion a home where they will be welcomed as Christ, cared for as family, and accompanied with dignity until God calls them to Himself, by donating part of the exhibition proceeds to its course,” she says. The show is sponsored and supported by Pepsi, Tiger, Indomie, Mikano, Haier Thermocool, The Guardian, Cobranet, UPs, Aina Blankson Attorneys, Cool FM, Wazobia TV, Lost In Lagos Magazine, Delta Airlines, The Homestores and Art Café.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .