The crisis of confidence rocking the Akure Zonal Chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has taken a new twist as lecturers at the Federal University Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) have distanced themselves from the alleged maladministration by the management of the university, led by Prof. Kayode Soremekun. The FUOYE lecturers, under the umbrella of Concerned ASUU (CASUU) and Congress for University Academics (CONUA), among others, accused the zonal body of a deliberate plot to destabilise the young university. The Akure zonal chapter of ASUU, led by its Chairman, Prof. Olufisayo Olu, had, at a press briefing in Ado-Ekiti, urged the Federal Government to, as a matter of urgency, address the anomalies at FUOYE to avoid administrative and academic matters at the institution. The leadership of the Akure zone said that the alleged move by Soremekun to impose his anointed candidate, Prof. Abayomi Fasina, as his successor, was an attempt to jettison selection by merit. But while denying all allegations of mismanagement levelled by the zonal body against the vice-chancellor and his management team, the FUOYE lecturers wondered why the attention of the zonal leadership has always been focused on the university when there are more troubling rots in other universities in the zone. Leaders of the ASUU factions in FUOYE, Prof. Sola Omotola of the CASUU, and his counterpart in the CONUA FUOYE chapter, Ayodeji Ige, said they doubt if the zonal leadership was talking on behalf of FUOYE ASUU. “They must be talking for themselves. We challenge Prof. Olufisayo Olu to come to FUOYE to put his house in order by resolving the crisis in ASUU that has split the union at the local branch into four factions. Maybe he is not aware that we now have four different factions of ASUU in FUOYE. He should tell us which faction he is speaking for. “Prof. Olufisayo Olu should know that as a matter of fact, today in FUOYE, we have four factions of ASUU,” they said. The lecturers wondered why the zonal body made accusations against the outgoing vice-chancellor and his management team in the selection of a new vice-chancellor when the process has not been concluded, saying: “If not for mischief, over 60 candidates have applied for the position of vice-chancellor and the process of selection is ongoing, how then can anyone accuse Soremekun of imposition when nobody has been selected. “We challenge Prof. Olu Olu to tell the whole world how the vice-chancellor of his university emerged? Was the process fair and credible? Why was he silent then and failed to raise the alarm?”. IN the same vein, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Ibadan (UI) branch, has distanced itself from the protest by some workers of the institution. Some workers of the institution last week protested against the alleged plan by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, to impose his deputy, Prof. Kayode Adebowale, as his successor. The protest, which was held till late in the night of Friday, led to the suspension of the announcement of the preferred candidate by the selection committee and the suspension of the ongoing selection process. The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) and Non-Academic Staff Unions (NASU) have insisted that Adebowale and another shortlisted candidate, Prof. Femi Mimiko, must be screened out. They also called for the appointment of an Acting VC who would oversee a new, transparent, and fair selection process. However, the decision of the union to distance itself was reached after a meeting of its executive branch held on Friday where it deliberated on the incidence. It said: “In the strongest terms, the union condemns the disruption of the meeting of the Governing Council of the University of Ibadan that was convened to conclude the selection of the next Vice-Chancellor of the university. “The union also notes that the practice of protesting, assaulting, attempt to assault or outright molestation of members of the Academic Staff Union of the Universities, UI branch, shall henceforth be vehemently resisted.” It, therefore, reaffirmed its earlier appeal to the Governing Council that a level playing ground must be given in the appointment of the next VC. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .