Emmanuel Amunike (Photo by Khaled DESOUKI / AFP) Former international, Abdul Sule, wants Emmanuel Amuneke to take over from Gernot Rohr as Super Eagles coach, doubting the German-French capability to take the team further than he did in his first two years he was employed. Nigerians were left startled when the Eagles gave away a 4-0 first half lead against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone and finally settled for a 4-4 score during the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) group L qualifier played in Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium in Benin City, Edo State. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Sule stressed the was need for a fresh idea to take the country’s football to a desired height. “Honestly, I think that in the last four years of Rohr, only the first two years of his stay were okay. This may have been the reason the NFF thought about extending his contract so that he can execute his plans for the team. But I am afraid with the way things are going now, it is better we let him go. “Let’s forget about our qualification now, because I know we are definitely going to qualify for the AFCON. For now, let’s bring in a fresh idea and I will suggest a Nigerian. I think it doesn’t really sound good relying always on foreigners to handle our team. “I don’t know why the NFF is keeping him, we have Nigerian coaches who can do better, so why can’t they do the job. I think Emmanuel Amuneke should be in the best position if only they will give him the free hand they give to the other foreign coaches. “Nigerian coaches can do it, but because there is so much sentiment in this national team issue. So, we find it very difficult to get somebody to handle the Eagles. The best thing is for us to let us sit down, get our acts together and get somebody who can do the job. “From what I saw in our first match, honestly I think there is mismanagement from the coaching crew. They couldn’t handle the team and they couldn’t manage the scores from 4-0 to 4-4. A team like, Sierra Leone playing against a team like Nigeria, no, no, it’s a big slap,” he said. Commenting on the players, who featured against the Leone Stars, Sule said, “Honestly, some of those players are just selected based on whom you know. That is the problem we are having in Nigerian football today. I know we have better players than those players who played against Sierra Leone. Even in our league here, there are better players,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .