 Kayode Fayemi  Fayemi said all the contracts were being displayed on the state’s website for the public to assess and scrutinise to embrace the open contracting culture and allow the citizens to take ownership of the government. The governor spoke in Ado Ekiti, over the weekend, at a three-day public procurement workshop organised by the Public Private Development Centre (PPDC) in partnership with MacArthur Foundation. Fayemi, who was represented by the state’s Commissioner for Budget, Mr. Femi Ajayi, said Ekiti had keyed into open contracting policy and complying with fiscal regulation via all-inclusive budgeting that would drive socio-economic policy for radical development. “Ekiti State doesn’t joke with the budget process. No government jokes with budgeting and transformation of the economy. “We are not afraid of the probe and financial scrutiny because we have nothing to hide.” Fayemi added that the Ekiti State Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) had been reformed with the enactment of a new BPP law, which stipulated that all projects and amounts they were awarded be put on the website for public scrutiny. Also speaking, Director-General, Ekiti State Bureau of Public Procurement, Mr. Seun Odewale, said that in line with the government action plan on budgeting, the procurement and payment, the amount, specification, and delivery of all contracts being awarded by the government were now being published. “Again, if such contract is terminated, the reasons for its termination must be stated, whether on account of poor implementation or lack of fund. The public is now allowed to get involved for participation, monitoring, and oversight to build trust between the leaders and the led.” The state Co-ordinator, Public and Private Development Centre (PPDC), Mr. Nelson Akerele, said the body had helped the government to design a portal where government projects are advertised for transparency and accountability, adding: “This will enable the people to verify how the allocations were being spent and reduce corruption in our procurement process.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .