Players arrive, register today as tourney tees off tomorrow Golfers from across the country are expected to converge on the Ibori Golf and Country Club, Asaba, to celebrate the club’s captain, Alfred Ebreneyin’s inaugural competition. In preparation for the tournament, the club has been tuned up in style in anticipation of a grand event, where friends and rivals will gather to renew ties. The tournament was earlier scheduled for the second quarter of this year, but it was postponed due to the Coronavirus pandemic and its consequent effects on activities worldwide. At stake at the two-day event are laurels in ladies and men’s categories, as well as veteran and super veteran cadres. According to the host, Ebreneyin, players, and others are expected to arrive at the club, register, and join in the cocktail today, while the ceremonial tee-off and tournament proper, as well as the presentation of prizes to winners and the dinner party, will hold today. Mr. Ebreneyin expressed confidence that the tournament would be hitch-free and well organised with COVID-19 protocols guiding proceedings to ensure the safety of players and guests. The captain enthused that the inaugural tournament would be successful and an improvement on the earlier editions, adding, “By my estimation, we are anticipating nothing less than 150 golfers at the tournament. “They are coming from clubs such as Benin Club Golf Section (BCGS); UBTH Golf Club, Benin City; Ogunnu Golf Resort, Warri; Port-Harcourt Golf Club; IBB Golf and Country Club, Abuja; Ikoyi Golf Club, Lagos; Ibadan, Jos, Enugu, and Calabar, among others. “IGCC Asaba welcomes all golfers to come and sample our beautiful, challenging, and unique golf course, then go back home and beat their chest to have walked the approximately 11,000sq metres, the par 72 straight 18 holes golf course offers. “Come and enjoy the golfing experience of Asaba. Come and partake of the deceptive, but lovely topography of the course. Lots of fantastic trophies and prizes have been slated, while entertainment is assured for golfers and guests during the course of the tournament.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .