• Buhari Condoles With Ex-Senate Leader Wife of Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, Amaka, alongside six others, yesterday died in a ghastly auto crash in Ondo State, while about eight others sustained various degrees of injuries. The Guardian learnt that the crash involved a truck, a commercial Toyota Avensis bus, a Honda car and a Toyota Coaster bus belonging to the Sports Centre of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA). Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has extended condolences to Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba and members of his family on the sudden and tragic death of his wife, Mrs. Amaka Ndoma-Egba. The President, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, yesterday, said his thoughts and prayers were with them in their period of grief. He prayed for divine comfort for the entire family of Ndoma-Egba and peaceful repose of the soul of the departed. According to sources, the fatal accident occurred near a military checkpoint along Ore-Okitipupa Road in Odigbo Council on Thursday night. The sources recounted that the former senate leader’s wife was travelling in the Toyota Coaster Bus heading for a burial ceremony in Igbokoda when the accident occurred. It was gathered that the truck collided with the two cars before crushing the bus into the bush, killing four persons in it, including Amaka, while three others died in the two cars that were first hit by the truck. The Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ondo State Command, Mr. Ahmed Hassan, who confirmed the accident, however, noted that only four persons- three females and a male- died in the accident. Hassan also disclosed that eight other persons were critically injured and taken to Pima Hospital in Ore for treatment, adding: “The accident happened around 9pm and involved three vehicles. “The accident was caused by loss of concentration and speed violation.” Head of Public Relations, Media and Protocol of AAUA, Victor Akinpelumi, said the only information he had was that a coaster bus belonging to the institution, on official assignment, was involved in an accident, adding that the university had sent officers from the Works Department to the area to assess the situation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .