 Sanwo-Olu. Photo; NATIONALWAVES  In a statement yesterday, its Spokesman, Mr. Taofik Gani, said the Assembly should commence the impeachment of Sanwo-Olu on the basis of the governor’s self-confession, infraction and breach of oath of office in the recent #EndSARS protests. However, Spokesman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Mr. Seye Oladejo, described PDP’s opinion as inconsistent, saying the opposition is always begging for attention to distract citizens of the state. According to PDP, “recent revelation, indeed confession by the governor that all his brand-new vehicles are donations, is indeed gratification, violation of his oath of selfless service, a gross misconduct and impeachable offence.” The PDP said that part of the investigation should include the identity of the so-called good-spirited donors, saying: “It is worse because now, every official in the state can take gifts even if that would lead to compromising ethical service to the state. These donors must be disclosed. They are most likely the parasitic investors, disappointing contractors and APC chieftains holding back pragmatic development in the state because they have the ears of the governor whom they have indeed donated a lot to.” It said it had done some fact checks of the Sanwo-Olu-led government and believes there is a lot of embedded corruption, mismanagement and criminal leakages, adding: “As a result, we are expecting that the Assembly and the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) must in the next 72 hours commence their investigation of the governor. This must be done to repose confidence in the system and douse the people’s plan to commence another street protests against mis-governance in the state.” Oladejo, who dismissed the impeachment call, said: “The opinion is consistent with the thought and state of mind of the factional spokesman of an opposition party that constantly begs for attention to distract Lagosians from its unending internal wrangling. “However, there’s a thin line between rabble rousing and a warped state of mind.
“It’s unfortunate that a well-meaning admonition on the need for prudence by Sanwo-Olu could be twisted to suit a devious political agenda.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .