 Spain’s defender Sergio Ramos shoots from the penalty spot but fails to score for the second time during the UEFA Nations League football match between Switzerland and Spain at St. Jakob-Park stadium in Basel, on November 14, 2020. (Photo by Fabrice COFFRINI / AFP)  Ramos was making his 177th appearance for Spain to break the international appearances record for a European player, pulling clear of Italy’s Gianluigi Buffon, who has 176. But instead of a celebration in Basel, it was a night to forget for the defender, who saw one spot-kick saved by Swiss goalkeeper Yann Sommer but backed himself to score a second, only to miss again with a dreadful attempted ‘Panenka’. Ramos had previously scored 25 penalties in a row and his inaccuracy from the spot cost Spain, who will now have to beat Germany in Sevilla on Tuesday to reach the final four. Luis Enrique’s side have only scored three times in their last five matches and finishing was their undoing against a well-organised Switzerland, who had led through Remo Freuler. They also had Nico Elvedi sent off for conceding the second penalty with 11 minutes left, but the hosts held on for a deserved point. Spain’s press was beaten too easily for the first goal as Switzerland broke at speed. With Ramos out of position, Breel Embolo raced in behind before pulling a cross back to Freuler, who opened up his left foot and skewed the ball brilliantly into the far corner. Ferran Torres could have equalised on the stroke of half-time but fired over at the back post before Ramos began a frantic half an hour. First, he brilliantly blocked Freuler’s shot on the line after Unai Simon had made a mess of rushing out and then the Spain captain won the first penalty, his header hitting the arm of Sergio Rodriguez, who had turned his back. But Ramos was unable to convert, his shot well saved by Sommer, who refused to commit too soon and got down quickly to his right. Twenty minutes later, Alvaro Morata, on as a substitute, was fouled by Elvedi and Ramos stepped up to make amends only to compound his earlier error by missing again, this time with an attempted chip that Sommer easily collected. Spain finally found an equaliser in the 89th minute as Moreno capitalised on a tiring Swiss defence by converting Sergio Reguilon’s cross. Switzerland held on for a point. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .