NEW YORK, NY – APRIL 07: Rapper T.I. discusses “T.I. & Tiny: The Family Hustle” with the Bulid Series at Build Studio on April 7, 2017 in New York City. (Photo by Roy Rochlin/FilmMagic) American rapper T.I. caused quite a stir on social media after disclosing how he prepares his body against coronavirus. T.I, whose birth name is Clifford Joseph Harris Jr., was accused of spreading misinformation about the deadly disease following his claims of drinking warm liquids to flush the virus through his stomach in a recent interview. While speaking on the virus, T.I revealed that he had taken 13 covid tests: “I’ve taken 13 COVID tests, they’ve all come back negative. All of them. I just took one. I get the results back in two hours. It’s not like I’m just careless about my concerns for the virus. I just refuse to live in fear. I’d rather prepare, and when I say prepare, some people feel like the mask… I myself have a perspective I’d rather boost my immune system to defend me against COVID should I come in contact with it rather than wear a mask and hide in fear of coming in contact with it.” T.I, who believes he was doing something right to prepare his body against the virus went on to say that warm liquids flush down coronavirus: “I’ve researched and I’ve found that COVID starts in the throat,” said the rapper. “A scratchy throat, a sore throat, before it makes its way..it grows and it travels to the lungs. If you catch it while it’s still in the throat and you drink warm liquids, the warm liquids wash it down to the stomach where the stomach acid then kill it.” TI shares how to BEAT COVID pic.twitter.com/bgxljumApz — speedy morman (@SpeedyMorman) October 30, 2020  “I drink Tea to stop myself getting COVID”. Says rapper TI who has clearly not bothered to check on how the UK is doing during this pandemic. https://t.co/k8f78PMgFc — Gregg  (@GreggC_CC) October 30, 2020  Say what?! TI knows doggone well this is some BS. This is almost as bad as Trump’s batshit crazy advice regarding the use of disinfectants! If one is endorsing the crazy man, the other is giving some reckless advice on how to handle COVID. They need to and be quiet!  https://t.co/ib9NImPvt5 — Jason (@jtlee1999) October 30, 2020  I had it, was hospitalized and it tore my a** up for 3 1/2 weeks! I drink hot tea 3-4 times a day, hot ginger/lemon water, turmeric…NONE of it protects you from degenerates who refuse to wear a mask!
Please STOP listening & promoting these celebrities! — Chiblues (@HerChiBlues) October 30, 2020  According to Ron Eccles, an expert in respiratory diseases at Cardiff University in the UK and former director of the Common Cold Centre, “there is no evidence that hot drinks will protect against viral infections.”