 Erica  On Thursday, Nigerian Breweries, a foremost brewing company, has unveiled a reality TV show star as the brand ambassador of the newly re-branded Legend Extra Stout and Star Radler. Speaking at the event, excited Erica said, “I am delighted to represent these two exciting brands. They embody youthful exuberance, unrestricted freedom of expression, among other qualities that make them a perfect fit for my audience and me. This partnership will no doubt be a success, and I cannot wait to be part of the execution of some of the activities we have planned.” Portfolio Manager, National Premium Lager, Nigerian Breweries, Sarah Agha who expressed her delight at the re-launch of both brands said: “As evidenced in the past, Nigerian Breweries is a champion of constant innovation channeled towards ensuring optimum satisfaction of our consumers, as well as make our brands refreshing and exciting.” She further said: “With Legend, we sought to introduce the brand in a new light, new refreshing variant, modern and premium look, and a reformulated taste that will no doubt be a hit with those seeking to experience it. The re-launch of the two fast-selling products within its portfolio, which was revealed at an exclusive event in Victoria Island, Lagos, is in line with the company’s penchant for innovation in order to ensure optimum consumer satisfaction, and increase demand at wholesale, retail, and distributor level. Introduced to the Nigerian market in 2014, Star Radler sported a blue, silver, yellow, and gold wrap, which reinforced the energy and refreshing attributes of the beer. However, the brand has recently made the bold move to transition to a new look that redefines the refreshing, thirst-quenching, and taste benefits of the beer mix. Coupled with the new look, Star Radler has also re-launched with a new variant-labelled ‘Red Fruit’, signaling the brand’s affinity for diverse offerings. Red Fruit is a cocktail of berries and the classic Lager, packaged with the remodelled bottle design and a touch of red, replacing the silver colour for the ‘Citrus’ variant. Meanwhile, Legend, which was re-launched in 2014 with a liquid reformulation and packaging redesign, swaps the old metallic label for a more modern design featuring the signature Legend torch and a generous complement of the colour, black, and a more pleasant taste, appealing to all stout lovers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .