 Gov. Bagudu  Flagging off a derby
Many citizens in Kebbi State have always expressed the fear that the 2023 governorship could bring Bagudu and Malami into a political skirmish immediately after the 2019 general elections brought back the governor, President Muhammadu Buhari and their All Progressives Congress (APC) into prominence.  THE defining feature of 2023 Kebbi State governorship election would be the clash of ambitions between outgoing governor and the Attorney General of the Federation, Malami. In the event that the plot to field Governor Bagudu as a possible Vice-Presidential candidate in 2023 fails, the expectation among his supporters is that he should go back to the Senate.  It would be recalled that Malami during the merger arrangement that preceded the formation of APC, ended up as the resource person to the Manifesto Drafting Sub-Committee of the inter-party merger committees from CPC, Action Congress of Nigeria (AC.N) and All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). Some of those pushing for Senator Abdullahi to succeed Bagudu believe that being a former Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources in both Sokoto and Kebbi States, Abdullahi would not only sustain Bagudu’s signature agricultural programme, but also take it to a greater height if he wins the governorship. However, while Senator Abdullahi and Malami hail from the same Kebbi North Senatorial District, age and need for balance between the legacy parties could favour Malami, who was the youngest minister in President Buhari’s cabinet in 2015 at 48. Senator Abdullahi is a much older person. Malami could not comment on the purported endorsement of the NUT President for governorship, but sources close to him said he was not perturbed by any such development, stressing that the AGF is preoccupied by the assignment given him by President Buhari.
 
Although not known for lifting a finger to advance the political interests of his loyalists, the fact that the AGF has continued to enjoy the confidence of President Buhari, starting from their days in Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) could count to his advantage. As the Minister of Justice also, Malami has positioned himself effectively as a chief supporter of the Buhari administration’s anti-corruption battle, a feature that was greatly enhanced by exploits in fight against misappropriation of public funds as demonstrated in the P&ID attempt to seize Nigeria’s assets valued at $9billion. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .