The family of Inspector Ayodeji Bankole Erinfolami of the Police Anti-Cultism and Kidnapping Unit SCID, Area “C’’ of the Lagos State Police Command, Surulere, has urged the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu to probe his death and also pay a compensation of N400m. The deceased was allegedly shot dead by his colleagues, while they attempted to disperse the EndSARS protesters. Jiti Ogunye, a human right lawyer in a petition on behalf of the deceased family stated that Mr. Erinfolami and Mr. Okechukwu Iloamuazor, were fatally shot at during the course of using live weapons to disperse the EndSARS protesters in Surulere Lagos on October 12, 2020. Iloamuazor was a driver, who was stuck in the traffic snarl occasioned by the protests and decided to alight to ease off, when he was hit by police bullet. According to Ogunye, after the unfortunate incident, the Lagos State Police Command issued a false statement, claiming that irate protesters, who invaded the said Police Unit with guns, killed the deceased.  Ogunye then stated that on October 15, 2020, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, paid a commiseration visit to the family of the slain Mr. Iloamuazor, and disclosed the identities of the policemen who used live weapons to disperse the EndSARS protesters. He added that the governor also said the suspected police officers were being investigated and undergoing police orderly room disciplinary protocols.
  
Ogunye therefore called for an investigation into the unlawful killing of the deceased officer by his colleagues, which would lead to their prosecution and punishment under the law. He also demanded N400m as compensation to be paid to the family of the slain officer, not later than 30 days of the delivery of his petition, to assuage the irreparable loss.
  
In addition, he demanded that an official delegation from the Nigerian Police should visit the family to condole and officially break the news of his death to them, as well as to undertake to pay the funeral expenses of the late Inspector Erinfolami. Ogunye warned that the family will not hesitate to initiate legal action to seek redress if the demands are not met. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .