Wike. Photo: TWITTTER/GOVWIKE Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has urged Nigerians not to allow parochial, sentimental politics to destroy the country, insisting that he has no regrets proscribing the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB) in the state due to his belief in the country’s unity. He charged Nigerians to rise up to protect and defend the interest of the country at all times. Wike stated this when a delegation of Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) visited him at Government House, Port Harcourt, to commend him for his efforts and dedication to protect the interest of ethnic groups resident in Rivers State. The governor said the #EndSARS protests were peaceful in the state until IPOB hijacked it, and committed arson by killing six army officers, four police officers and burnt police stations and courts. “As governor I cannot seat and watch such lawless acts to be perpetrated by people a group that has been proscribed by the Federal Government to cause ethnic war in my state. Without any apologies, I am a true Nigerian. I believe that things must be done properly in a way that every component part of this country will be satisfied,” he stated. Governor Wike, restated that he was not against any ethnic group in the state, including law abiding Igbo, but maintained that as a governor, he could not tolerate a situation where some misguided persons under the guise of IPOB would unleash mayhem innocent Nigerians in Rivers State. He explained that if the State Security Council were not proactive in imposing curfew on Oyigbo Council Area, the situation would have degenerated into war between the Igbo and Hausa community residing in the area. According to him, the decision forestalled ethnic reprisals that would have led to total breakdown of law and order in Oyigbo and Diobu areas of the state. Wike said Nigerians should stand against injustice at all times no matter who is involved and be determined to work for the interest of the entire country, stressing that he was a true Nigerian and would continue to work for the country’s indivisibility. Spokesman of CNG, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said they visited the state to express their gratitude to Governor Wike for his leadership, sacrifice, statesmanship and unwavering commitment in protecting Northern communities from the violence and violation of their rights and dignity during the Oyigbo crisis.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .