No fewer than 200,000 farmers are expected to be engaged by the regenerative agricultural intervention in 10 states in Nigeria. The regenerative initiative, the first of its kind in Nigeria would be piloted across  Kano, Cross River, Jigawa, Kaduna, Bauchi, Katsina, Kebbi, Benue, Niger and Plateau states. The new Agricultural technology is inherently enhances on-farm biodiversity and water storage capacity will enhance farmers productivity and food security in the country. The biotechnology Agricultural project, is being anchored by Dantata Foods and Allied Products Company Limited, in partnership with RegenFARM Limited and the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office of the British Government under its Agricultural sector intervention (LINKS Project). The tripartite partnership is aimed at increasing quality food production, enhancing export opportunities of Nigeria’s Agricultural commodities and improve the soil fertility, nutrients content and organic matter. Besides, the biotechnology will rescue Nigeria from challenges of soil degradation through flooding, erosion and continued cultivation which reduce farmers productivity and low yield. Speaking on the project, Managing Director, RegenFARM Limited Mr.  Jason Haywarda said Regenerative Agriculture would be an all-embracing opportunity for the Agro-processing industry in the country. Mr Jason explained that the Intervention will also enhance small holder farmer out-growers productivity, boost profitability and resilience to climate change will be greatly enhanced. On his part, the Chairman/CEO Dantata Foods and Allied Company Limited Alh.  Tajuddeen Aminu Dantata posited that the partnership has already galvanized access to markets in UK and other parts of Europe for the organic commodities produced under the Regenerative Agriculture practices. He added that Dantata is involved in Agricultural Production, manufacturing and processing, besides the export and distribution of Agro allied products, as well as Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG). “Dantata Foods have aggregated and monitored farmers in the aspect of livestock and animal husbandry. With all these achievements, the Company wants to build a strong relationship with the Central Bank of Nigeria to stand out as a reliable implementing partner for farmers’ aggregation and Agro-allied development projects”. With a financing commitment from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), under the Prime Anchor Borrowers Programme, the consortium of private sector and government bodies, the agric solution is expected to rollout new techniques to boost food security in the country. The use of Regenerative Agriculture inherently enhances on-farm biodiversity and water storage capacity, and therefore RegenFARM Platform offers a cross-over to other complimentary industries and sectors which are focused on, for example, conservation of wildlife and the retention of rainwater in the landscape to rehydrate arid landscapes. General Manager, Corporate Services, Dantata Foods and Allied Products Company Limited, Sanusi Bature in the release emphasized the platform is designed to assist with the management of various food value chains and offering complete traceability from farmers to end users.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .