S. I. Okelezoh Text: Isaiah 65:8
[8] Thus saith the Lord, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, destroy it not; for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants’ sakes, that I may not destroy them all. The foundation laying of protest is injustice in the landmass of Nigeria and these foundations are laid by fathers (leaders). The harvest of injustice is corruption, which is now a common factor of both leadership (fathers) and followers, (sons).
There are various forms of clusters:
Cluster- as companies, manufacturing productive businesses,
Cluster- as group of fathers or predecessors,
Cluster- as group of potential successors,
Cluster – as gathering of genuine youth protesters. A national sovereign conference cluster is the gathering of both fathers and sons to find a new good amicable solution of the way forward. Malachi 4:6a- And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers. We should always keep this in mind that, life and destiny destroyers are the weightier matter and property destroyers are a less weighty matter.
A little brief historical former name of Nigeria Nigeria was called Royal Niger Company, whose flag would depict her divine source; the God of Heaven, Who rolled down green, white and green from His throne, which epitomises and established fruitfulness green at both edges and righteousness represented as white in the middle. However, the iniquities of our fathers since independence till date, whose leadership CLUSTER has created a critical MONUMENT. On the other hand, the iniquities of the children (followers) have broken the records set by the fathers, thus presenting another MONUMENT. The fathers’ iniquities and that of the children have both reached monumental proportion. But during Nigeria’s 60th birthday, 20th of October 2020 was a cluster (protest) call awakening to revert back to national righteousness. If thou (the LORD) shall regard, mark iniquity, who shall stand? My advice will be: don’t allow your land to go up in flames and burn. When it burns, all the people would be driven away or consumed together. Bishop Dr. S. I. Okelezoh, Ministry Of Perfection Church
ighokesam@gmail.com
09097516598  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .