Chief Uche Nworah Ph.D, MD/CEO, Anambra Broadcasting Service (left); Representative of Pharmacist Dr. Emman Ude Akpeh, Permanent Secretary, Office of the Secretary to the State Government; Ozo Uchenna Ezeani, Director, Procurement, Planning, Research & Statistics, Anambra State Universal Basic Education Board, ASUBEB; Mrs Ngozi Onuorah, Executive Secretary, Post-Primary Schools Service Commission; Adebayo Ojeyinka, Director, Public Service Office, Office of the Head of Service; Carol Njaka, Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Establishments, Pension & Management Services, Office of the Head of Service and Stephnie Keri-Uzo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture after receiving their awards in Abuja. Five Anambra State public servants have been listed among the Presidential awardees and recipients of the 2020 Federal Government of Nigeria Public Sector Leadership and Productivity Awards (FGNPSLPA). According to the Director General of National Productivity Centre, Dr. Kashim Akor, who represented the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Nwabueze Ngige, the award is to recognise and celebrate individuals and organisations in the Nigerian public sector who have played exceptional roles in the total factor productivity through breaking new grounds in development, implementation and institutionalisation of forward-looking policy directions, project delivery and process improvement in several areas including digital economy, diaspora relations, governance among other achievements. The award ceremony, which took place on Wednesday, November 25, 2020 at the Nigeria Army Resource Centre, Abuja, was the highlight of the a 2-day Nigeria Leadership and Productivity Summit, organised by the National Productivity Centre, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment. The awardees are: Chief Uche Nworah Managing Director and CEO, Anambra Broadcasting Service, Mr. Adebayo Ojeyinka, Director, Public Service Office, Office of the Head of Service, Mrs. Carol Njaka, Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Establishments, Pension and Management Services, Office of the Head of Service, Mrs. Stephnie Keri-Uzo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs Ngozi Onuorah, Executive Secretary, Post-Primary Schools Service Commission, Ozo Uchenna Ezeani, Director, Procurement, Planning, Research and Statistics, Anambra State Universal Basic Education Board, (ASUBEB), Pharmacist Emman Ude Akpeh, Permanent Secretary, Office of the Secretary to the State Government. Dr. Uche Nworah, who dedicated the award to the hardworking staff of the organization, appreciated Governor Willie Obiano for all his support and encouragement to the Board, management and staff of the ABS. Also, Mr. Bayo Ojeyinka, who spoke on behalf of all the Anambra state awardees, thanked Governor Obiano for being worker friendly, and pledged that the recognition by the FG will spur the recipients to do more.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .