The figures of Virtual agrofood & plastprintpack Africa 2020 (www.Virtual-Africa.net) speak for themselves, and the German organiser fairtrade and its many African partners have every reason to be proud of this enormous success.  “With 1,000+ registered attendees from 73 countries (https://bit.ly/3kBgiN1), 75 speakers (https://bit.ly/3kCc0Fl), 45 panel sessions, presentations & product demos (https://bit.ly/2H4xdtF) and exhibitors from 15 countries (https://bit.ly/2IFV3Ng), Virtual agrofood & plastprintpack Africa is a truly global event, the most prestigious virtual industry event to date with a clear focus on Africa”, outlines Paul Maerz, fairtrade (www.fairtrade-messe.de) managing director. “The success is based on our 30 years of experience as organisers of agrofood & plastprintpack trade shows. We are delighted to be able to offer a digital industry platform that helps business people in Africa and around the globe to connect with each other for free in these unprecedented times”. Virtual for all Africa is the place where exhibitors, attendees and speakers connect, learn and discuss business. The digital event will take place from 23 to 26 November 2020 and is designed to facilitate valuable business contacts between hundreds of representatives of leading global manufacturers and of top buyers from the African agrofood & plastprintpack industry. For four days the spotlight will be on Africa and on agricultural production, food & beverage processing technology, food ingredients, finished food and beverages and plastics, printing and packaging raw materials & technology.    Attendees join for free and enjoy personalized visibility Attendees register for free (https://bit.ly/3kCc6gb) on the event platform. After creating their profile with photo, company name, social media and fields of interest, attendees enjoy personalised visibility and can be matched with the most appropriate business partners. Digital lead generation & matchmaking at its best. Another advantage: Attendees appear in the filter results. If for example a food manufacturer searches for suppliers of packaging machines on the event portal, his search will not only show exhibitors but also attendees who offer such machines. And, of course, participants can also search for suitable business partners themselves by using the filter function “Company's main activity”. This allows every attendee, exhibitor and speaker to create contact requests vis-à-vis anyone else and to hold unlimited and free B2B meetings via video call at the agreed times. And best of all, all contacts are recorded so that each attendee can receive his or her lead reports in real-time, including meeting reports. The data of the new business partners can then be exported. Including notes and evaluations of the meetings. Relevant content & inspiring speakers in 45 panel sessions, presentations & product demos In addition to the B2B meetings, Virtual agrofood & plastprintpack Africa 2020 will offer a large-scale conference programme (https://bit.ly/32OozY4) extending over the entire four days. In 45 panel discussions, presentations and product demos, 75 inspiring speakers will address relevant and currently highly debated topics. The programme includes, for example, speed dating with industry experts, reports by correspondents on selected African countries or a discussion on sustainability. There will be a panel discussion on the relevance of the African Free Trade Agreement. Other important topics include project financing and local perspectives from Nigeria and Ethiopia. Facts and figures on Africa’s agrofood & plastprintpack investments For more information: www.Virtual-Africa.net Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Fairtrade Messe und Ausstellungs GmbH & Co. KG. Contact for Press and Media:
fairtrade Messe GmbH & Co. KG
Mr Luca Leiser
Public Relations
Kurfürsten-Anlage 36
D-69115 Heidelberg
Tel +49 / 62 21 / 45 65 22
l.maerz@fairtrade-messe.de
www.fairtrade-messe.de Contact for Exhibitors:
fairtrade Messe GmbH & Co. KG
Ms Freyja Detjen
Project Management
Kurfürsten-Anlage 36
D-69115 Heidelberg
Tel +49 / 62 21 / 45 65 19
f.detjen@fairtrade-messe.de
www.fairtrade-messe.de About fairtrade – Valuable Business Contacts:
fairtrade (www.fairtrade-messe.de) is the Germany based organiser behind the leading agrofood & plastprintpack trade shows in Algeria, Ethiopia, Ghana, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Kenya and Nigeria. Founded by Martin Maerz in 1991, fairtrade ranks among the leading organisers of professional international trade fairs in emerging markets, especially in North and sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East. Managed by its shareholder and his son Paul Maerz and committed to the values of a family business and the team spirit, fairtrade maintains a powerful network of partnerships throughout the world. fairtrade strives for a high level of customer satisfaction. By means of innovative products and excellent service fairtrade organizes professional platforms for valuable business contacts. fairtrade is a member of UFI The Global Association of the Exhibition Industry. Its management is ISO 9001:2015 certified. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .