Adewale A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the 2015 Lagos West Senatorial District candidate, Segun Adewale, has assured members of the party that there is hope in overcoming the prolonged internal crisis that have continued to prevent the party from having good outings for a very long time in Lagos State politics. “At this point, we must all turn away from those who want to make our matter worse, as their activities around Lagos PDP is becoming very suspicious. It is our wish, as an accommodating party, that those fomenting trouble should reflect and have a rethink for the sake of the party’s progress,” he said. In a statement yesterday, Adewale also congratulated the South-West leaders for the successful meeting held in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, where various initiatives were taken, including the setting up of reconciliation committee and sharing of zonal positions among the six South-West states, fairly and justly, aimed at fostering and deepening the peace the party has been enjoying since Makinde became governor and leader of the party in the zone. He said: “For us in Lagos State, we are eagerly waiting for the time the governor will come and speak to our teeming members and leaders, because there is nothing we have gained fighting one another over the years. “We want the governor to quickly intervene, as his interventions are needed because as the number one PDP leader in our region, who also have the power and authority to oversee all the states in South-West, we will continue to give him the respect and support he deserves. He said that all the local council leaders, members, chieftains and chairmen were more than ready to meet with the governor, including state leaders, for the reconciliatory process the governor had initiated. Adewale, who urged the PDP leadership to make the party more attractive to new members, stated: “Lagos is able and capable of winning elections in 2023, as we have started speaking with our members who left for other parties to come back home. We will also initiate a process of liquidating other political parties into PDP.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .