In efforts to deepen safer skies, the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) Nigeria, has harped on the need to improve utilisation of safety recommendations from air accidents and serious incidences to enhance air safety in the country. AIB Commissioner, Akin Olateru, during the Nigerian Aviation Workshop Symposium (NAWS) 2020, organised by International Gazelle Limited in partnership with the AIB, said implementation of safety recommendations is key to the growth of the sector. Olateru noted that the AIB’s partnership with the aviation regulator, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), among other local and international partners, led to better safety compliance in Nigeria and in line with International Civil Aviation Organisations’ (ICAO) safety recommendations. Speaking on the theme of the workshop: “A Safety Management System Approach to Responses to Aviation Accidents and Incidents within Nigerian Airspace,” Olateru disclosed that AIB and partners are implementing Safety Management System (SMS) to further enhance aviation safety. He explained SMS to mean a set of processes and tools that are adopted to formally manage a structured safety programme, adding that having such a system in place to mitigate risks and promote safety is very crucial. The AIB commissioner added that safety management in the aviation industry is a combination of two perspectives – traditional and modern, saying traditional (or reactive) approach involves analysis of past outcomes or events. Hazards are identified through investigation of safety occurrences, which help to mitigate reoccurrence. This is useful when dealing with technological failures, or unusual events. He said modern (proactive) approach, follows a risk management strategy that includes identifying hazards before they materialise into incidents or accidents and taking the necessary actions to reduce and or prevent the safety risks. Declaring the conference open, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Aviation, Hassan Musa, who was represented by Capt. Talba Alkali, the Director of Safety and Technical Services, said AIB safety recommendations had led to safer aviation. “Effective implementation of SMS by the service providers will definitely showcase the safety risks associated with their operations and with the right resources available, implement appropriate mitigating actions to address these safety risks, thereby ensuring safe aircraft operations,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .