 David Umahi. Photo: FACEBOOK/GREATDAVEUMAHI2019  The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) has assured Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi of a level-playing field if he aspires for the presidency in the 2023 general elections. The PGF, chaired by Kebbi State Governor Atiku Abubakar Bagudu, welcomed Umahi, said to be angling for the presidency, to the APC fold, saying he would surely contribute to the party’s process of membership and leadership recruitment at all levels. The PGF, in a statement, noted: “Our message to all Nigerians is clear- politics is all about free, fair and transparent contestation. APC belongs to every member. Everyone from every part of the country is free to aspire for any position in the party in line with provisions of our party’s constitution and the 1999 Constitution, as amended. “The guiding philosophy, as enshrined in the provisions of our manifesto, is economic, social and political development of Nigeria.” Continuing, the Forum noted: “Indeed, considering the nature of achievements recorded in Ebonyi State since 2015, Umahi couldn’t have been in any other party, but the APC. If anything, we are only welcoming Umahi home where he belongs; to the party that will provide him and his people and indeed all Nigerians, the viable platform for political aspirations and negotiations. “Together with Umahi and all our leaders in the APC, we are confident that our party’s capacity to serve the collective interests of all Nigerians through effective representation will be strengthened. “By coming into the fold of the progressives, Umahi has opted for open, transparent and honest contestation in politics, which is the overarching commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari and all our founding leaders. “We are confident that the National Caretaker Extraordinary/Convention Planning Committee will soon release detailed programme of activities leading to the national convention. “Together with Umahi, we shall forge stronger partnership to mobilise all patriotic and other like-minded progressive Nigerians to join us in APC to enhance our capacity as a party to respond and resolve all our democratic challenges.” Meanwhile, EBONYI State Governor David Umahi, yesterday, sacked his aides from Ohakwu Council of the state, from where a former governor of the state and a serving senator, Dr. Sam Egwu, hails, saying the decision was to ensure greater participation of Ebonyians in governance. Following the governor’s recent defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), Egwu, at a press conference, announced that lawmakers from the state at the National Assembly had decided to remain in the PDP. A special public service announcement by Secretary to the State Government/Coordinating Commissioner, Ugbala Kenneth Igwe, read: “In avowed determination of Ebonyi State Government to allow greater participation of Ebonyians in governance, the Governor has approved the removal from office of the following political office holders from Ohaukwu Local Government Area with immediate effect. “The affected officials are all the Coordinators, Executive Assistants, Senior Technical Assistants, Technical Assistants, Liaison Officers and Management Committee Members of Development Centres in Ohaukwu LGA. “In view of the above, all the affected former officers are directed to handover all the government property in their possession to the Secretary to the State Government before the close of work on Monday November 23, 2020.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .