A former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George has flayed some Southwest leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over what he considered unnecessary visit to President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock Villa.
 
On Friday, former Governors of Ogun and Osun states, Chief Segun Osoba and Chief Bisi Akande, accompanied by Elder Tajudeen Olusi and Dr. Yomi Finnih visited Aso Rock Villa to see President Buhari, though the details of the meeting are yet to be disclosed.
 
Describing the visit as ‘The jamboree visit to the Villa: My Birthday Offering,’ George in a statement yesterday said, “The visit of Chief Bisi Akande, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, Dr. Yomi Finnih and Chief Segun Osoba to the seat of power in Abuja was needless, veiled in some poorly hidden agenda that is woven in apparently self-serving ulterior, personalised desperation.” When contacted, Osoba waved off George’s reaction, saying he had had access to seat of power in Nigeria right from the First Republic during the administration of former Prime Minister, Alhaji Tafawa Balewa and the various military regimes to discuss state matters.
 
“There is nothing to respond to in whatever anybody feels about our visit to the Presidential Villa,” he said.
 
George said it is easy to discern that the visit was stripped of any patriotic progression, lacking in balanced national leadership and voided of a spirit of sacrifice and developmental vision. 
 
“The very absence of former Governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu from the jamboree screams to high heavens that the meeting itself is a covert placatory softening of the ground for Tinubu himself. I am pretty certain that in his very absence, Tinubu occupied the centrality of the discussion,” he said.
 
George admonished President Buhari not to fall for those who would eclipse the main issue wrecking Lagos State in a needless, solicitous self-immersed scheming in partisan engagement.
   
He said Tinubu needed to pay restitution for the egregious stripping of Lagos coffers. “This is my humble birthday offering,” he said. Osoba, however, refused to divulge details of their meeting. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .