National Centre for Technology Management (NACETEM) has stressed the need to strengthen Nigeria’s innovation system for economic development and sustainability, while canvassing huge investment in Science, Technology and Innovation (STI).
  
NACETEM’s 2020 National Business Innovation Survey, undertaken to measure the state of innovation in Nigeria’s manufacturing and service sectors, showed the country has a weak national innovation system.
  
Director-General of the Centre, Prof. Okechukwu Ukwoma, argued that science and technology can only have a meaningful impact on the socio-economic transformation of countries if it influences development processes and births new products in the market.
  
Ukwoma added that the experience of successful developing countries shows that integrating STI policies into the national development strategies and enacting institutional reforms offer the pathway for increased productivity and firm competitiveness.  He added that the benefit of the government in having a robust innovation is productivity in both the formal and informal sectors.
 
“Productivity in the private sector helps the government to solve the problem of unemployment. For instance, we place a lot of emphasis on the formal sector, which is good because they are the most productive. But the informal sector employs nearly 80 per cent while the formal sector employs 20 per cent but the earnings from the formal sector is about 70 per cent higher than that of the informal sector. So, we cannot elevate one above the other. The gains we get from one service the other. Government benefits because if we strengthen the informal sector we get to mop up a lot of unemployment and if we strengthen the formal sector, we get to become more productive as an economy.”
 
On his part, Assistant Director, Planning, NACETEM, David Adeyeye, said the objective of the survey was to assist the government to make policies that will help companies to be more competitive, introduce new products, and improve on their services.
 
He urged the government to invest in Information Technology, energy and ensure adequate infrastructure especially in transportation by providing good roads.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .