•Lions Club Sensitises Nigerians On Managing  Risks Health experts have once again recommended maintaining healthy body weight, being physically active for at least 30 minutes regularly, moderation in intensity of activities on most days, is required for preventing diabetes. The experts, who spoke in an interview to observe World Diabetes Day 2020, noted that eating healthy diet, avoiding sugar and saturated fats intake and tobacco use or smoking are required in reducing the risk of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. The theme for this year World Diabetes Day is ‘the Nurse and Diabetes’. The campaign is aimed at raising awareness on the crucial role that nurses play in supporting people living with diabetes. Former President, Association of Resident Doctors in Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Dr. Olubunmi Omojowolo, said diabetes occur when the pancreas, an organ in the body, does not produce enough insulin. Meanwhile, as part of effort aimed at managing risks associated with diabetes, members of Lions Club (District 404-B2 Nigeria), yesterday, stressed the need for Nigerians to monitor their sugar level and exercise well enough to keep the disease under control. Tagged ‘Let’s walk to stop diabetes’, the members started the awareness campaign with a short walk from LASUTH General Hospital, Ikeja, through Computer Village, Ikeja Council secretariat and Ikeja under bridge.  According to him, “by 2040, it is expected that over 640 million of the world’s adult population may be living with the disease. Although there is no cure, some forms of diabetes can be treated. This month, we take a closer look at diabetes highlighting the symptoms, risks, diagnosis and treatment for the disease.
   
“So, it is a project Lions Club International holds dear to their heart. We will conduct screening and treatment if need be. If the case is severe, we refer them to specialist hospitals. We should take our health seriously we must exercise regularly and watch our lives,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .