The African Development Bank (www.AfDB.org) has held the first virtual statutory meeting of the new African Development Bank-Civil Society Committee ahead of the Civil Society Forum to be held on 26-27 November 2020.  The committee, which met on Tuesday, aims to build stronger partnerships with the African civil society community by enhancing communications and raising awareness on the Bank’s work in their respective regions and sectors. Building on the positive results from the previous committee, the Bank’s Civil Society and Community Engagement Division, which serves as the committee’s secretariat, facilitated the renewal of the Bank-Civil Society Committee for the next term, from 2020 to 2022. “The Bank is counting on the active support, participation and contributions of the renewed committee over the next two years that will further reinforce civil society engagement and ensure the civil society community is contributing effectively to inclusive growth in the continent in line with the Bank’s 2013-2022 Ten-Year Strategy,” Vanessa Moungar, Bank Director for Gender, Women and Civil Society, told online participants. The main objectives of the statutory meeting were to agree on the internal operational processes, prepare the committee work program, and discuss the role of civil society in the delivery of the High 5 (https://bit.ly/365fVX0) development priorities. The renewed committee will build on the work of the 2018-2020 committee. The Bank named 11 civil society representatives from across the continent to the committee as follows (to sit alongside 11 Bank staff): Regional Representatives Thematic Representatives International NGO Representative Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Development Bank Group (AfDB). Media Contact:
Amba Mpoke-Bigg
Communication and External Relations Department
African Development Bank
Email: a.mpoke-bigg@afdb.org About the African Development Bank Group:
The African Development Bank Group (AfDB) (www,AfDB.org) is Africa’s premier development finance institution. It comprises three distinct entities: the African Development Bank (AfDB), the African Development Fund (ADF) and the Nigeria Trust Fund (NTF). On the ground in 37 African countries with an external office in Japan, the AfDB contributes to the economic development and the social progress of its 54 regional member states. For more information: www,AfDB.org To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .