 Ugwuanyi  A statement by the State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Emmanuel Ikechukwu Obi, said: “The disease was confirmed through verifiable diagnostic tests. Yellow Fever is not a new disease, but one of public health importance internationally and in Nigeria. It is among the controlled in the Nigerian set of routine and mass immunisable diseases. A suspected case is anyone with a sudden onset of fever, who develops jaundice (yellowness of the eyes) within 14 days. It is verifiable by diagnostic tests.” Obi explained that the state Ministry of Health called for an immediate Emergency Operations Centre Meeting yesterday morning, with representatives from the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other implementing partners in the state, to articulate specific next steps to effectively respond to and control the disease in Igboeze North LGA, and prevent its spread in the state “We are collaborating with the Federal Ministry of Health and nearby states to prevent its spread within Nigeria,” he said. “The General Hospital, Enugu Ezike, and other hospitals in the state are prepared to provide the supportive treatment needed for Yellow Fever. It is transmitted by the aedes or haemogogus specie of mosquitoes, and causes symptoms within three to six days of infection, which range from a mild febrile illness in some individuals to a more toxic illness that can, unfortunately, lead to death in others. Only 15 percent of infected persons enter this toxic phase. “This is a time to continue in earnest the hygienic practices we have become used to, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, while now improving our environmental hygiene practices; keep our surroundings clean and free of overgrown bushes, ensuring that we do not allow containers and gutters around us to collect water for long periods, which allows mosquitoes to breed. We should protect our homes by screening doors and windows with nets, and ourselves by sleeping under mosquito nets and wearing clothes that limit mosquito bites. If you recognise the above symptoms in yourself or a loved one, please visit the nearest hospital.” About 57 persons have allegedly died since the outbreak of the disease in the communities in September. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .