Insists On Using NPFL Players As Foundation For Super Eagles
Former international, Felix Owolabi, has expressed disappointment at the colour of the Super Eagles’ new jerseys, which were worn during the two friendly matches played against Algeria and Tunisia, saying that the green does not represent the true colour of the country’s national flag. Nigeria meets Sierra Leone in the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers on November 13 in Benin City, Edo State, and the reverse match slated for the Siaka Stevens Stadium, Freetown, on November 17. The Eagles are expected to wear the newly designed jerseys by Nike. Speaking to The Guardian during the week, Owolabi said that the people running the country’s football seemed not to know the luck behind wearing the true colour of the nation’s as an identity as reflected in the green and white colour of the country’s flag. “The green colour of the newly designed jersey of national teams is not the real green colour of our national flag. How I wish that Nigerians know what the real green stands for when representing one’s fatherland. “I remember in my days at the Shooting Stars, when somebody offered to partner with us and we told him to bring samples of jerseys he wants to present to the club. “When the man brought the designs, it took an illiterate but intelligent elderly man fan of the club to tell the sponsor that the colour of the jerseys he brought were not true colours of Shooting Stars, deep sky blue. “Even the jersey worn by the Eagles’ goalkeeper has always been yellow until when Vincent Enyeama came and we started seeing our goalkeepers wearing red. Red as we know stands for danger, so, why would you put your goalkeepers under danger? As funny as that may sound, but that is the truth,” he said, adding that it still pains him that no domestic player will be involved in the qualifiers. “At a time when most countries’ leagues are back in action, it is only in Nigeria that the domestic leagues are yet to start and this make my heart bleed and I am so sad about it. I keep saying that the destiny of our football is in our local league. If Nigerians do not know this, let them look back at the 2013 AFCON when we won our third title with 40 per cent of our local league players,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .