Former representative of Cross River Central Senatorial District, Victor Ndoma-Egba, has asked vandals who looted his house in Calabar to return his late father’s monumental judges robes. In a statement issued in Calabar, he appealed to the invaders who broke into his home to return the robes, as they would not be useful to them, but rather incriminate them. Ndoma-Egba, who described the attack on his house as premeditated, wanton, and unjustifiable, however, said he understood the angst, especially among Nigerian youths, noting that the country would only develop if its leaders ensure that the youths remained its most important resource by reforming the polity.
  
“At 2:00 a.m. on Saturday, October 24, 2020, as I was abroad, I received a text message informing me that there were plans by hoodlums to attack my residence in Calabar, alongside that of Senator Gershom Bassey and Senator John Owan Enoh’S hotel. “I promptly forwarded the texts to Bassey and Enoh and also called security agencies in Calabar to apprise them of the information.” “The information I received indicated that Calabar was already tense from the previous day’s looting of warehouses where COVID-19 palliatives were kept and the subsequent breaching of shops and other businesses,” he said. He explained that the attack on Bassey, Enoh, and his residences were already public knowledge as he received several calls to that effect, adding: “Thereafter, I kept calling security agencies, but in spite of their assurances that they will secure my house, there was no evidence of any security personnel in my vicinity. I understood the times were indeed confounding for everybody.”
 
Ndoma-Egba, however, noted that he had forgiven the intruders and prayed for them to find meaning, inner peace, and fulfillment in life. Continuing, he said: “I am, however, worried that we now have an environment that is breeding armies and possibly generations of frustrated, angry and bitter youths, who are often exploited by unscrupulous political jobbers. “Given our demographics, our youths can either be a blessing, if they are educated or skilled, motivated, and engaged, or a curse. It is in our collective best interest to do so. We must break the cycle of hopelessness, anger, hunger, and frustration among our young people, otherwise, the situation will only get worse. And so we must act immediately.”
  
The senator, who also lamented that the recent vandalism, looting, and insecurity in Calabar were unprecedented, said: “Calabar is known for the acronym: Come And Live And Be At Rest.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .