Following reports on the media regarding the termination of a former staff member, I would like to clarify the following:  • General Gebre-Egziabher Mebratu formally retired from the regular employ of the African Union Commission on 30 June 2020 after reaching retirement age. • He was subsequently given a three-month short term contract in an acting capacity while the the internal competitive recruitment and selection process for his successor could be completed. • On the 10 November 2020, the Commission received a letter from the Ministry of of Defence requesting that the former staff member be withdrawn from duty at the Commission. • It must be noted that the former staff member, while formally retired from the regular employ of the Commission, remains a serving high-ranking national military officer. • The initial appointment of the General Gebre-Egziabher Mebratu in 2011 to the role of AU Head of Security and Safety Division at the Commission, was upon the strong recommendation of the host government, to avail a serving high ranking national military officer to the role. • Following receipt of the letter by the Ministry of Defence, the Commission met with the General and duly informed him of the request of his national hierarchy which he confirmed. • The Commission is responsible for the safety and security of the personnel, it is clear that this role cannot be entrusted to an individual, who remains a serving national military officer, and in whom his national hierarchy withdrew its full trust and support. • Currently the role is being assumed by an international staff member from the Division until the AU internal recruitment and selection process is complete • The Commission subsequently held a meeting with the Bureau of he AU Staff Association to update them on the incident and related staff concerns.  Issued:by Ebba Kalondo
Spokesperson to the Chairperson
African Union Commission
14 November 2020 Distributed by APO Group on behalf of African Union (AU). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .