Rivers United, Pillars also lose Enyimba of Aba yesterday gave Nigerians something to cheer after some disastrous performances by the country’s other teams in the continent, Plateau United, Kano Pillars and Rivers United. Playing in the CAF Champions League, the Peoples Elephant beat Rahimo FC of Burkina Faso 1-0 in Quagodogou through substitute Victor Mbaoma’s 76th minute goal. Enyimba need only a draw in Aba to move to the next round of the CAF Champions League, but that cannot be said of Plateau United, who lost 0-1 at the new Jos Township Stadium. The Jos boys lost 0-1 to visiting Simba of Tanzania through Clatous Chama’s 55th minute goal. Plateau came into the match with high hopes of profiting from home advantage against the visitors, who appeared in this year’s competition as Tanzania’s kings. They had the better part of the game, but paid for their wastefulness when against the run of play, Chama broke the deadlock for Simba, with a rebound after Plateau goalkeeper Adamu Abubakar parried Miquissone’s effort into his path in the 54th minute. To qualify for the next round of the Champions League, Plateau United must beat Simba in Tanzania by at least two goals.
 On Saturday, Rivers United lost 1-2 to Futuro Kings of Equitorial Guinea in the preliminary round first leg of their CAF Confederation Cup tie. The game played at the Estadoi De Mongomo, Equatorial Guinea saw the host, Futuro Kings who were formed in 2017, dominating the game from the blast of the whistle. The home side broke the deadlock in the 46th minute when Nkama Gregoire rose highest to head the ball past goalkeeper, Ospino Egbe. The goal looked to have spurred the Nigerian side as they came forward in their numbers to get the equalizing goal. That almost paid off in the 59th minute when Chika Godwin thought he had the ball in the net, but the goal was called off for offside.
 Futuro Kings soaked up the pressure and made scores 2-0 in the 68th minute. Godwin Aguda reduced the tally through the penalty spot in the 77th minute as the game ended 2-1. Rivers United need just a lone goal victory in Port Harcourt to make the next round. In Senegal, Kano Pillars lost 3-1 to Jaraaf FC despite taking the lead in the 13th minute through David Ebuka.The Senegalese equalized in the  19th minute through Zaky Bassenewas and took the lead in the 39th minute through Samba Dialo’s header. The hosts made scores 3-1 through Lubasse Gulye in the 80th minute to make maters worse for the Nigerians.
 Kano Pillars must win by two goals in the reverse fixture to remain in the competition. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .