The Lead Visioner of Team Jandor and initiator of the Lagos4Lagos Movement, Abdul-Azeez Adediran, has accused his political party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), of throwing obstacles at his Movement. While decrying the unpalatable series of events he had allegedly been subjected to, he stressed that he and his team would not succumb to any threat from highly-placed quarters. Adediran, who spoke at a press conference, yesterday, said that it was worrisome that the movement was facing opposition from in-house elements, rather than outside quarters, as one would expect. He cited the case of a candidate within the party who was stripped of a state appointment shortly after declaring his gubernatorial interest two months ago, stressing that the Lagos4Lagos movement would not go down the same path, as they were merely exercising their constitutional rights. “We will not succumb to any threat whatsoever from any quarter, irrespective of how highly-placed that quarter is. What we are doing as a group is to tell ourselves and prepare for having a Lagos all of us can be proud of. The one that will work for the Igbo man living and working in Lagos and at the same time, a Yoruba man, irrespective of where that person comes from and also, the sons of the soil. This is what we are doing,” he said. Adediran, who chided APC Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, over accusation of attention-seeking, said: “I read the reactions of our party’s publicity secretary on our movement and he said to me that I was merely seeking attention. It’s okay because that’s exactly what we’re doing. We’re seeking attention from Lagosians so they can pay attention to what we’re doing and the amount of work we’re doing. So, they can see how consistent we’ve been for the past four years.” To tell ourselves that we can do better and to further prove to them that the likes of someone, who said I was seeking attention, who probably is almost 60, should be done with. And let’s see how we can bring in new ideas, fresh ideas, and energy. Adediran further stated that there had been outstanding and undeniable cases of subtle opposition from different quarters within the past few days. According to him, the Lagos State Government allegedly stripped the Lagos annex of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) of its sponsorship, simply for identifying with him. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .