• Panic in Jigawa as kidnappers attack commuters
Military kills scores of bandits along Abuja-Kaduna way Bandits have reportedly killed no fewer than three members of the Kaduna State Vigilance Service (KADVIS) during an ambush in Chikun Council Area of the state. Officials of the KADVIS made this known to the state government yesterday, saying bandits ambushed the personnel at Dande Village on their way from Damba-Kasaya in the Buruku area. A statement issued by Commissioner for Home Affairs and Internal Security, Samuel Aruwan, identified the slain personnel as, Alison Musa, Dauda Audu and Ishaya Sarki, adding that three other persons were injured during during the attack. “Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has sent condolences to their families and prayed for the repose of their souls, while wishing those that sustained injuries speedy recovery. “The governor also commended land and air troops of Operation Thunder Strike for a successful operation around Kuku area in Kagarko Council Area of the Kaduna-Abuja Road,” the statement reads.
SIMILARLY, in spite of assurances of security of lives and property, residents of Jigawa State now live in fear and anxiety due to rising abduction of prominent persons and other citizens, as kidnappers continue to attack commuters. The Guardian observed that the trend started in September 2019 with the abduction of Jahun Prominent Petroleum Dealer, Salisu Angas’ mother, who was later rescued after payment of N3m ransom. This was followed by the kidnapping of Governor Mohammed Abubakar Badaru’s Special Adviser on Assembly Matters, the late Yahaya Mohammed’s mother the same month, but was later released on payment of N2m ransom. Four months after, wife representative of Miga council in the state House of Assembly, Hon. Haruna Aliyu Dangyatin, was abducted and released after the payment of N2m ransom. Similarly, in January this year, the son of representative of Auyo Council, Hon. Sani Isyaku Kigima was abducted in Kigima, but later regained his freedom after payment of N2m ransom. Reacting to the development, Governor Badaru expressed concern over the rising crimes and criminality across the state in the last three months, a situation which forced the state security council to vow to confront the challenge head on. Badaru and the security operatives resolved to adopt security measures aimed to contain security challenge’s confronting the state and assured of his administration’s commitment to prioritise security. MEANWHILE, troops killed several armed bandits in a joint offensive to raid bandits’ camps in the Kuku area of Kagarko Council Area along the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway axis of Kaduna State. The operation was carried out following intelligence reports that a cluster of huts and other structures at the location served as hideout for a bandits’ leader identified as ‘Major’ along with his fighters. The first wave of air strikes, which involved six Nigeria Air Force (NAF) aircraft undertaking five missions in 13 raids, commenced at dawn and targeted the cluster of huts where ‘Major’ hibernated. Coordinator of Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters, Major General John Enenche, who disclosed this in Abuja, said the attack aircraft hit some of the target structures and neutralised several bandits. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .