The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, declared that Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, has been misled into political wilderness, saying the situation may ruin his political career. Inaugurating the PDP Caretaker Committee for Ebonyi State in Abuja, it also vowed to stop plans to frustrate its chances of remaining in power in the Southeast.Deputy National Chairman of the PDP (North), Suleiman Nazif, who inaugurated the committee on behalf of the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, wondered why Governor Umahi agreed to defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC), which he said, has no grassroots support in the Southeast. “What has happened in Ebonyi State is unfortunate. A governor the people of Ebonyi, especially the PDP worked to install has been deceived. And he has left the home that he has always known. And now he is wandering.  And he will continue to wander until he comes back home. “What the Abuja powers are trying to do is to edge out PDP from the Southeast, but they cannot do that. We admire the Southeast people, because they have contributed immensely to the development of Nigeria. The PDP will continue to be a household name in Ebonyi,” he stated. Nazif, who predicted the political misfortune of Governor Umahi, said: “We are wondering why the governor left PDP and went to the wilderness. I cannot see what he has gone there to do. I cannot see what APC will give him that he does not have in PDP. “But sometimes people get blinded and when they are blinded they cannot see. They are going to finish him there and he will come back here.”The inauguration ceremony brought Ebonyi PDP leaders together as they vowed to ensure that the party remained strong in the state. Chairman of the 10-member committee, Hon. Fred Udeogu, lamented that Umahi disappointed those who made him governor, saying: “I can assure you that Governor Umahi was installed by 100 per cent of those of us gathered here today. “So, on behalf of our members, we assure you that we will win the state as we have been doing. We will deliver Ebonyi 100 per cent to PDP and we appreciate the National Working Committee (NWC).” A former President of the Senate, Anyim Pius Anyim, former Governor Sam Egwu, senators Obinna Ogba and Sylvanus Ngele, among other party leaders attended the ceremony. Also yesterday, the party’s NWC appointed Chief Ali Odefa Chairman of the reconstituted Southeast Zonal Caretaker Committee and named Hon. Laz Ogbei auditor. This, it said, was pursuant to Sections 29 (2)(b) and 31(2)(e) of the PDP Constitution 2017 (as amended), adding that the Caretaker Committee would pilot the affairs of the party in the Southeast Zone for a period not exceeding three months (90) days as stipulated in section 32(2)(e) of the constitution. It enjoined all members of the party in the Southeast to continue to work together harmoniously.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .