World Athletics governing body has recognised Kaduna Marathon as an event on its sporting calendar. This was disclosed yesterday, in Kaduna, at the unveiling of elite runners and sponsors for the maiden edition of the marathon, which holds today in Kaduna. The state Acting Governor, Dr. Hadiza Sabuwa Balarabe, was presented with certificates confirming Kaduna status by officials of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria led by its president, Olamide George. Olympian, Yusuf Alli, who is the technical director of the race, stated that any records set at the Kaduna Marathon would be accepted as valid by the world athletics body, and would also enter into the history books. Alli disclosed that the route of the Kaduna Marathon was marked by one of the leading experts in the field, adding that the global standing of the race is such that it can be accepted as an Olympic qualifier. He assured that the Kaduna Marathon, which kick-starts by 7:30am, would conform to the international standards and would be run in a loop similar to that of this year’s London marathon. Balarabe said the state was delighted to welcome sponsors, elite runners, athletics officials, journalists and other participants to Kaduna for the maiden edition of the marathon. “The Kaduna Marathon provides another platform to bring people to Kaduna and to bring the people of Kaduna together in a common endeavour. Your decision to run in the Kaduna Marathon has made the event possible. “Whether your motivation is glory, professional, esteem, to support a good cause or sheer fun, you have made it your race. When you start the race by tomorrow (today) you will be creating a new history as the first runners in the first official marathon event in this part of the country,” she stated. Balarabe thanked sponsors and residents for their support, even as she appealed to the people of the metropolis to bear with the government over the inconveniences that might result from road closures.She promised that government would ensure that the second edition in 2021 is a much better than the inaugural event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .