 Nasir el-Rufai  Reacting to the attack, the Operation Safe Haven immediately contacted the Kaduna State Government over the killings and beefed up security to avert further violence in the troubled area. Military sources disclosed that Kuye and his son were killed in the early hours of yesterday. A statement issued by the Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, revealed that the victims were killed in their Gidan Zaki residence, Zangon Kataf Council Area of the state. The military also disclosed that Kuye’s wife sustained machete wounds while his daughter was shot in the hand. Aruwan said: “The security report further stated that the attack was carried out by about five men wielding AK-47 rifles and machetes, who also tried to burn the house and a vehicle in the premises. “The military personnel recovered three empty cases and 7.62mm special live round ammunition at the scene. Troops and other security agencies are investigating and trailing the assailants.” MEANWHILE, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killings, describing the attack as “evil and violation of the sanctity of life and destruction of property by enemies of peace who must be made to face the full weight of the law.” El-Rufai, who commiserated with the Kuye family and the Atyap Traditional Council, prayed for the repose of the souls of the deceased and commended the late Kuye for his contributions to the peace-building efforts in Zangon-Kataf. “The governor has directed the Commissioner of Police and Director of the Department of State Services (DSS) to partner with the military and other security forces to ensure diligent investigation of the incident. “Security agencies also reported attacks in Giwa Council Area where armed bandits attacked Fatika, Kaya and Yakawada villages, killing two persons and kidnapping others,” he stated. Apart from the killing of Kuye and his son, Aruwan said security agencies have informed the Kaduna State Government about the attack on Albasu village in Igabi Council Area of the state. He added that security agencies identified the 11 persons killed as Amadu Mallam, Idi Gefefe, Isah Goma, Awwalu Goma, Babangida Iliyasu, Lado Iliyasu, Ya’u Jumare, Hamza Umaru, Shehu Jibril, Tukur Albasu and Musa Adamu Muruzuwa, while Muazu Albasu, Samaila Chairman and Junaidu Husaini sustained injuries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .