SS2 student nabbed for stabbing schoolmate to death in Akwa Ibom The police in Kano State have arrested a 24-year-old Habibu Sale, who allegedly kidnapped and killed an eight-year-old Asiya Tasiu in Chikawa village, Gabasawa Local Government Area of the state, after collecting a ransom of N500,000. There are indications that the suspect may die by hanging after prosecution, as investigations are still ongoing to arrest his accomplices though he confessed to have committed the crime alone. The Kano State Police Command spokesman, DSP Abdullahi Haruna, said the incident happened on June 5 this year, but police effected his arrest on November 7 in front of his house. Police investigations revealed that Habibu allegedly killed the girl after collecting the ransom and buried her in a shallow grave at the outskirts of Chikawa village to cover his crime. Haruna added that Habibu, a neighbour to Asiya’s aunt, kidnapped Asiya while she was going on an errand in her aunt’s place.Though Habibu confessed to have committed the crime alone, police theory indicates that there were other accomplices at large, because he confessed to have spent the N500,000 ransom on harlots, drugs and gambling. Alhaji Tasiu Mohammed Adamu, father of the victim, told newsmen at the Bompai police headquarters that the kidnappers of her late daughter demanded for N10 million ransom, “but we later settled for N500,000. MEANWHILE, the Akwa Ibom State Police Command said it has arrested one David Joshua Okon, SS2 student of West Itam Secondary School, Uyo, for allegedly killing a SS3 student, Solomon Bassey, in a cult clash between the two classes. The command Public Relations Officers, SP Odiko MacDon, who disclosed this yesterday in a press statement said the Commissioner of Police, CP Amiengheme Andrew, frowned at the moral decadence in some secondary schools and called on parents to inculcate values into their children, adding that the proscription order of the State government will be enforced to the later. He said “David Joshua Okon, who stabbed and killed one Solomon Bassey, of the same school in a cult-related SS2 and SS3 fight has been arrested.	”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .