What: Vertiv Digital Channel Summit EMEA 2020  When: Tuesday, November 17th 2020  Time: 10:30 to 13:30 CET Details: You are invited to virtually join more than 500 Vertiv (Vertiv.com) partners across Europe, Middle East and Africa for a half-day of channel-focused insights. It will include a panel discussion and sessions with key guest speakers from Dell, Canalys, Context and CRN who will be discussing the industry trends set to define the channel in 2021. Vertiv executives participating in the Summit include: Alex Pope, VP Integrated Rack Solutions EMEA Karsten Winther, VP Sales EMEA Vicente Chiralt, Senior Director Field & Channel Marketing EMEA How to Join:  https://bit.ly/32do7Cb  Agenda: 10:30 – 10:50 CET – Keynote: Accelerating through the corners ahead – Balancing digital acceleration and digital resiliency Karsten Winther, VP Sales EMEA, Vertiv (host) Margarete McGrath, Chief Digital Officer, Dell Technologies UK 10:50 – 11:10 CET – The Edge Space in an Accelerated Market: Edge Market Analysis & Solutions
Alex Pope, VP Integrated Rack Solutions EMEA, Vertiv (host)
Robin Ody, Senior Analyst, Canalys 11:10 – 11:30 CET – Adding Context to The Channel: The Channel Market(ing) Intelligence Session Vicente Chiralt, Senior Director Field & Channel Marketing EMEA, Vertiv (host) Senthu Premakumar, Director Research & Business Development, Data Analyst, Context  11:30 – 12:00 CET – Channel Voices Panel Discussion Sara Yirrell, Consulting Editor at CRN & Channel Partner Insight (panel host) Karsten Winther, VP Sales EMEA, Vertiv Regina Bluman, Head of Brand & Marketing, Logicalis Paul Stringfellow, Technical Director, Gardner Systems  12:00 – 12:45 CET – Regional Breakouts, Q&As and Partner Awards Vertiv recognizes its most successful partners across the EMEA region.  12:45 – 13:30 CET – Expo Area Vertiv product demos and presentations.  Interviews: If you are interested in talking to any of the speakers, please do contact APO Group as per the details below who will endeavour to accommodate your interview request.  More: https://partners.Vertiv.com Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Vertiv. Media Contact:
APO Group – PR Agency
Lerato Chiyangwa
Email: lerato.chiyangwa@apo-opa.com About Vertiv:
Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) (Vertiv.com) brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to ensure its customers’ vital applications run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. As Architects of Continuity™, Vertiv solves the most important challenges facing today’s data centers, communication networks and commercial and industrial facilities with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and services that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, USA, Vertiv employs approximately 20,000 people and does business in more than 130 countries. For more information, and for the latest news and content from Vertiv, visit Vertiv.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .