Suspected bandits have shot and killed two persons following an attack on Dagwarwa village in Kurfi Local Government Area of Katsina State. Sources said the incident occurred early hours of Thursday morning, at about 1 am, after the bandits stormed the home of one Mallam Muazu. It was learnt that the bandits shot and killed Muazu’s son, as well as his (Muazu’s) junior brother who was also in the house at the time. It is, however, unclear if Muazu himself was in the house, or if he had managed to escape before the bandits broke into the house. A source said the bandits had stormed the community in their numbers and rode on motorcycles, and armed with dangerous weapons. He also said that many of the community members had become apprehensive following the attack, with some of them said to be weighing the possibility of relocating. The bodies of the deceased persons would be buried later on Thursday morning, it was learnt. The incident comes less than a week after suspects bandits shot and killed the chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Batsari council area, Abdulhamid Sani. Also less than a week ago, bandits had shit and killed a traditional ruler, Atiku Maidabino in Danmusa council area. They also shot at his security guard, but he was lucky to have escaped with gunshot wounds. At the funeral of the monarch, the Secretary to the Government of the State (SGS), Mustapha Inuwa said the government would work with security agencies to fish out perpetrators. Inuwa also said that the incident would not deter ongoing efforts to bring banditry to its knees through a major military operation in the state. Governor Aminu Masari, in a recent interview, lamented that the state is faced with security challenges brought about by bandits. Masari said the government had negotiated and granted amnesty to the bandits on two occasions, but that some of the bandits breached the agreement and went back to their life of crime. He, therefore, vowed never to grant pardon to bandits again, even as he announced the termination of the last amnesty programme for bandits. A spokesman for the police command in the state, SP Gambo Isah was yet to respond to an inquiry made over the Kurfi incident as at the time of this report. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .