The aquacultural farming of Claris species, otherwise called, Catfish, has become a popular business in Nigeria. Given such popularity and preponderance, this farming continues to enjoy increasing demand for its products (i.e. Catfish and fingerlings). The reason for this is obvious. Catfish is a source of rich, cholesterol-free, and special type of easily digested animal protein that is increasingly being recommended over red meat. Also, it is usually obtainable life and fresh from the local markets. The dried and processed form of catfish is also usually part of a number of Nigerian delicacies, including vegetable soup, Egusi soup, Banga soup, pepper soup, etc. What’s more, the World Health Organisation (WHO), has repeatedly mentioned the low protein intake of a large percentage of the Nigerian populace. Consequently, the increasing production of Catfish can be a veritable means of bridging this gap of protein deficiency. In other words, massive opportunities still abound for any prospective Nigerian aquacultural entrepreneur that is interested in producing catfish for the general public. Market Prospect
The market prospect of catfish cuts across the whole country. But foremost consumers are the restaurants, households, beer parlours, hotels, and individuals. Nigeria with a population of over 200 million people is estimated to consume about 1.5 million metric tonnes of fish per annum. The bulk of this demand is being met through the importation of frozen fish coupled with grossly inadequate domestic production of fresh fish (about 600,000 metric tons). Hence, there are huge opportunities for prospective fish farmers to tap into the production of table size catfish for people. Production Capacity: 			8000 table size catfish
Estimated Start-Up Cost:		/			N650,000.00
Equipment:        Four constructed fish ponds, water pump, generator, plastic water tank, fish harvesting net wheelbarrow, weighing scale, generator,
overhead water tank, hose, net, Syringe, rubber bow,       etc-   	N700,000.00
Raw Materials (stocking of Juvenile)				N60,000.00
Working Capital (for six months)				N800,000
Total			–   N2.210 million
Potential Profit:			N2.5 million per annum or more
Typical Fees/ Prices:	Portrait N800 per kilogramme
Advertising Options:	Target marketing of market women, restaurants, hotels, household consumers
Qualifications:	Intensive practical training and exposure to catfish aquaculture practices.
Staff Required:	CEO/Operation Manager, Operation Officer 1
This profile, or any similar one, can be developed into a bankable proposal for any interested investor. For further clarification, do contact The Guardian To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .