 Students  “Mathematics is fun with the right attitude, and it also improves your thinking,” he said. He explained that the purpose of the programme was to sensitise and create awareness to the general public, especially JSS 3 and SS3 students on the importance of studying Mathematics and Statistics programmes, all of which are offered at Ajayi Crowther University. “In addition to allaying the fear of learning Mathematics among secondary school students, we want them to know that studying Mathematics and Statistics as the first degree does not mean the person will end up being a teacher. There are other good careers one can venture into, after studying mathematics. “The individual that studied mathematics can be a banker, stockbroker, actuarial scientist, data analyst, pilot, financial analyst and an economist, among others,” he explained. He noted that teachers could adopt different methods to make the subject interesting and fun for students. He said: “Teachers should establish mathematics laboratory in secondary schools, where students can handle materials, perform mathematical experiments, play mathematics games and become involved in other mathematics activities. Efforts should be made to avoid using one single approach to teaching mathematics.” He explained that parents and guardians should be encouraged to purchase current mathematics textbooks and other relevant equipment for their children to practise at home. “The classroom is a factory, where human behaviour is manufactured. Within the classroom environment, students must naturally exhibit pleasant and unpleasant behaviours, attitude and actions. It is the teacher’s responsibility to guide this natural order for learning and knowledge acquisition. The teacher should influence the learner and accordingly manipulate the learning environment through observing all traits and potentials, and rightly moulding the students to fit into the expected behaviour for the attainment of instructional goals,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .