 May D  Right after his 2012 exit from the now-defunct Square Records, which was affiliated with the former singing duo, P-Square “due to irreconcilable differences,” he went ahead to release his first compilation project, Chapter One, which officially announced his arrival in the music industry. However, there was no follow up to his debut album, even as many had anticipated Chapter Two. In fact, there was nobody of work from the artiste until his recent when he dropped his six-track Extended Playlist (EP), High With You.
  
One unique thing about Mr. May D, which has reflected in this new offering, is his vibrant and catchy vocal persona; it effortlessly trademarks him as a bestseller in the vocal shops of Afro Pop. The 19-minutes listening experience glues you from the very first track, Call My Name, a groovy Afro Rnb/Pop record, which also features Wande Coal, his old-time friend from his days at the University of Lagos, until the last song, Belong, another Afro Pop song.  The work is largely an inviting playlist, which, as most good playlists do, leaves you longing for more, at its end. Interestingly, MayD, who sings under his self-owned Confam Entertainment label, wore multiple hats on this project. Right from being the Executive Producer to being the sole songwriter and compositor, as well as the Artists Repertoire personnel, and eventually the singer… it was an exhibition of his mastery of music.
  
Meanwhile, Mr. May D brings his creative artistry to commendable performance with the way he easily juggles between English, Yoruba, Pidgin and French languages on his songs such as Belong (with Stanley E-Now), High With You and others, are colourful examples of the lingua-vibrancy of this project.
  
However, as customary with many Nigerian Afro-Pop artistes, High With You EP is another cliché compilation of songs that vainly adulate or obsess with the beauty of a woman and the euphoria of substance intoxication. While we know that these are contents that we have overheard, projects like this still score massive streams and airplay, because they are danceable and appealing; High With You EP is no different. 