The Net Worth of Nigerian born New Zealand-based UFC fighter, Israel Adesanya, is on the rise since his emergence as the middleweight champion in Mixed Martial Arts (MMA). Adesanya is currently earning big money from UFC pay-per-view fights. His purse money for each fight and sponsorship payout increased after becoming the UFC middleweight champion, where he defeated Robert Whittaker in a title unification bout in October 2019 at UFC 243. The Nigerian won the fight via knockout in the second round to become the undisputed UFC middleweight champion. The win earned Adesanya his fourth Performance of the Night award. Some statistics, which The Guardian stumbled on revealed that the victory against Robert Whittaker earned Adesanya about $500,000, which includes $400,000 purse, $50,000 performance of the night and $40,000 from sponsorship bonus. Adesanya also got $500,000 total purse for the victory against Yoel Romero on March 8. The Nigerian had earned $350,000 for the fight against Kelvin Gastelum, which was his career highest money during UFC and MMA before the fight against Robert Whittaker in 2019. Adesanya, who resides in Auckland, New Zealand, is preparing to face another Brazilian fighter, Paulo Costa soon. The fight against Costa will be Adesanya’s second battle against a Brazilian, having overpowered legendary fighter, Anderson Silva in UFC 234’s main event in Melbourne in February last year. In less than two years, Adesanya was crowned the undisputed UFC middleweight champion after trumping Australian star, Robert Whittaker, in Melbourne last October. The Nigerian, who hails from Odogbolu in Ogun State, went on to beat Cuban fighter, Yoel Romero at UFC 248 in March this year to retain his middleweight belt. Adesanya became famous after signing contract with UFC in 2018. He rose to fame as MMA star, after winning major fight against Stuart Dare at Hex Fighting Series 12 event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .