Akothee Kenyan singer Esther Akoth professionally known as Akothee has given out instruction on how she would like to have her burial done in the case of her demise. The popular Kenyan entertainer who expressed her displeasure about “a few pretentious celebrities” who only celebrate their counterparts when they are dead said she doesn’t want any of them at her funeral. “A celebrity is celebrated more when dead than alive, sad. Let nobody come to my funeral expecting special services. You never paid for a VVIP nor showed up on my concerts and when I am dead, now you want to be recognized as one of Akothee’s supporters. Don’t come,” she wrote. The mother of five goes on to add that to avert any of her baby daddies fighting for her remains, she has instructed her family on where to lay her body to rest. “I have instructed my family that in an event that I die before them, my body will be viewed at Rakwaro primary school, so my loyal fans can see me it has a huge space. None of my exes will fight over my body, it’s all sorted. “Definitely I won’t be buried in Europe, Rongo Nyale, but Jakamagambo rakwaro kacha, if you want to eat in my funeral, please carry your packed lunch, Don’t come to frustrate my family with VVIP,” shared Akothee. Akothee | Nairobi Wire Pleading that nobody should stress her family after her death, she concluded. “You never paid for it when I was alive, stick to your lane! My family are not celebrities, they are not the richest female Artist, Akothee has died with the show. Come, mourn, bring gifts, money and presents and leave in peace.” “We shall all die yes, the internet never forgets so save this one, you are the internet. I would rather have a funeral full of fans and 7 celebrities! Did you know that very few celebrities contribute to Paybills, sijataja mutu mimi call police. Fans is you see any celeb post my RIP on their pages, and they never posted my work, please wake me up haki.” Earlier this year, 39-year-old Esther Akoth better known as Akothee has schooled women not to hold men responsible for their failures. Akothee is a well known Kenyan philanthropist, songwriter, dancer and entrepreneur. She is also the CEO of Akothee Safaris, a tour company based in Kenya.