Healthy skin is a daily commitment | Photo royalty We have to admit that the skincare process can be quite overwhelming. The numerous products and steps involved in a skincare routine could be very confusing, especially if you are trying to start a skincare routine. As confusing at it may seem at first, skincare routines are straightforward to jump into, and the radiant, glowing skin you get at the end of it makes it worthwhile. To get you started on your perfect skin journey, here are 6 essential steps of Korean skincare which form the pillars of healthy glowing skin: Step One: Cleanse The first and most crucial step of the six-step K-beauty skincare routine is cleansing. Cleansing helps with the removal of accumulated dirt, pollutants and impurities from the skin, helping your skin remain clear and healthy. It also helps prepare your skin for further skincare steps preventing all the problems caused by unclean skin. During the activities of the day/night, the skin picks up dirt and germs which when accumulated could log the skin’s pores, leading to breakouts and skin irritation. This is why it is vital to cleanse first, to remove this grime as dirty skin does not absorb products. There are several types of cleansers, some of them include Makeup remover, micellar water, milk cleanser, astringent and acid toners as well as cleansing wipes. Physical exfoliants, clay masks and clarifying masks also double as great cleansers for the skin but should be used sparingly. Clear Skin | Photo Twitter Step Two: Exfoliate A skincare routine without exfoliating would definitely not be complete. The exfoliation process helps your skin remain bright and youthful by removing dead skin cells from the skin, which reduces cell turnover. There are two ways to exfoliate, chemically and physically, each having their different benefits, so you must choose a method that is best for your skin. Chemical exfoliants use small but concentrated amounts of gentle acids such as lactic acid, and glycolic acid combined with natural exfoliants such as lemon, orange and papaya to gently remove dead skin cells. Physical exfoliation on the other and involves physically removing dead skin cells using abrasive ingredients like sugar and biodegradable beads. Physical exfoliation, while being effective, is harsher on the skin and should be done only once a week. Also, remember to adjust your exfoliating routine if you encounter irritation or redness. Korean Beauty Routine. | Photo Ohlolly Step Three: Treat This step is targeted at treating skin concerns such as acne, blackheads and hyperpigmentation. The treatment step involves using actives in the treatment of skin problems. These products include active ingredients, medically proven to increase collagen production, accelerate skin renewal, reduce dark spots and acne. The products involved in the treatment stage include prescription retinol, effectively formulated AHA and BHA chemical exfoliants, Vitamin C serums and acne spot treatments. To correctly choose an active treatment product, make sure to pick one that treats your skin issues. Lavido Hydrating Toner | Photo Raw Lotion Step Four: Nourish Nourishing the skin gently treats skin issues while supporting its health and comfort. The products used here are targeted at giving your skin a nicer look and feel by evening the skin tone, plumping and smoothing texture. They also help the skin resist irritation, damage and quickly treat breakouts. These products include hydrating toners, first essences, serums, sheet masks, non-cleaning wash-off masks and modelling masks. These products all include hydrating components, which hydrate the skin, and supplements your treatments, making your skin glow. Step Five: Moisturise Once your skin has been nourished, the next step in the six-step K-beauty routine is to moisturise. Moisturising helps seal hydration, allowing the ingredients in the other step settle into the skin, maximizing their benefits. Moisturisers include moisturising gels, emulsions, creams, and lotions. Moisturisers are top-rated skin products, known to maintain skin softness and comfort. The Trans-Epidermal Water Loss process causes the skin to lose some of its water content and moisturisers reduce this water loss. They combine emollient ingredients that fill in the microscopic crevices in the skin giving it a smooth texture and occlusives, which create a barrier against moisture loss. They also include hydrating humectants ingredients which add more water to the skin. Step Six: Protect The final step in the six-step K-beauty routine is skin protection which shields the skin from UV radiation, reduces skin ageing and hyperpigmentation. Sunscreens are used in the protection of the skin from photodamage. Sunscreen is vital as it not only prevents sagging and wrinkles but also reduces the risk of getting skin cancer caused by UV damage to the skin. Final Word These six steps form the pillars of an effective skincare regimen, guaranteed to leave you with healthy, glowing and youthful-looking skin. Remember that some of these steps, i.e. exfoliation, is better done at night while others should be done twice a day.