Former Super Eagles’ Captain, Austin ‘Jay Jay’ OKocha and BetKing at the weekend joined other multinationals in the fight against the deadly coronavirus (COVID-19) by donating essential materials and food items to isolation centers in Lagos State. Betking’s Master Agent, Adeniyi Bello, presented the donation, made to the state government by Betking in conjunction with the Jay Jay Okocha Foundation, to the Lagos State Ministry of Health at one of the isolation centers located at Lagos Island. Bello disclosed that Betting was in full support of the total eradication of COVID-19 in Nigeria.
 
“Our donation of personal protection equipment, hygiene products and food items to the isolation centers is to aid the state’s efforts to suppress the spread of the coronavirus in Nigeria. BetKing is committed to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of the frontline workers and volunteers serving communities in the fight against COVID-19,” he said. Receiving the materials on behalf of the Ministry of Health, Permanent Secretary, Dr. Olusegun Ogboye, thanked BetKing for the donations, while promising that the items would be particularly useful for the frontline workers as intended by BetKing. Apart from supporting Lagos State with palliatives, the sports betting company also created a kingmakers’ fund to assist mitigate the sufferings of Betking agents, who have been facing business challenges due to the suspension of sporting activities globally. According to the company, the fund is to improve the financial well being of agents.Speaking on the initiative, Managing Director, Betking, Gossy Ukanwoke, said, “BetKing’s support during this unprecedented global pandemic is in line with our promise to improve the lives of those in communities where we operate. “Over the years, we have successfully delivered on this promise through job creation for thousands of citizens, be it directly or indirectly; however, our primary focus during this time of crisis is to support the government’s efforts to curb the effects of the pandemic. BetKing stands committed in the fight against COVID-19.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .