• Bauchi deputy governor tests positive
• Ortom lifts lockdown on churches, mosques Gombe State has recorded five more coronavirus disease (COVID-19)-related deaths. Chairman of the state’s Task Force on COVID-19, Prof. Idris Mohammad, stated this yesterday during the briefing on the pandemic. He said the five latest fatalities included a director at Government House working at the Secretary to the State Government (SSG)’s office who died on Sunday. Muhammad said the development had proved that the state had community transmission, adding that it took the death toll to eight. He, however, noted that the state had discharged 124 patients from its isolation centres. In a related development, Bauchi State Deputy Governor Baba Tela has tested positive for COVID-19, media aide to the governor, Mukhtar Gidado, stated on Tuesday night. Tela is the Chairman, Bauchi State Task Force on Disease Control that is fighting COVID-19 and Lassa fever. The statement read in part: “Deputy governor of Bauchi State, Baba Tela, who is also the chairman of the state’s task force on COVID-19, was confirmed positive for coronavirus.” He added that Tela was symptomatic, having contracted the disease while carrying out his responsibility as chairman of the committee. “Consequently, Tela has gone into self-isolation in Bauchi, and health professionals are properly managing the situation. “Also, samples of all his primary contacts have been taken by the Nigeria Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC) for test and they are advised to remain in isolation pending the outcome of their results,” Gidado said. Bauchi has recorded 241 cases so far with 221 of the patients discharged, eight died and 12 cases are still active. While soliciting prayers for his deputy’s speedy recovery, Governor Bala Mohammed has enjoined the citizens to adhere strictly to the protocols to curb the spread of the virus. Meanwhile, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has lifted the partial lockdown on worship places in the state, with a proviso that they hold staggered services in compliance with physical distancing as prescribed by the NCDC. Ortom who announced this yesterday, however, said depending on the congregation, churches and mosques could have as many services as possible of less than one hour. He added: “Issue of social distancing must be observed and congregants must wear face masks, while mosques and churches must provide soap and running water as well as alcohol-based hand sanitisers. “Curfew remains from 10pm to 4a.m. daily. Markets will now be open, but with observance of social distancing and wearing of masks.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .