Public redress, testing uncharted waters and breaking out of intellectual theft were the highlights of this week. Indeed, the lessons for the week came as business lessons especially for those in the creative industry. Here is a rundown of the week: Name swap Naira Marley | Photo Instagram Will marlians still come forward now that their president might be in trouble? Weeks after Azeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley, was arranged before the court for social distancing violations, the artiste travelled to Abuja via a jet for a drive-in concert alongside Big Brother’s Kim Oprah performed to a delighted crowd. However, this resulted in a lot of backlashes especially as the interstate travel ban is still on. Interestingly, the airline’s chairman, Dr Sam Iwuajoku, claimed that the reason the trip was approved was because he saw the name Babatunde Fashola, and thought it to be Nigeria’s Minister of Works. Kanye “Moneymaking” West Kanye West | Photo XXL Mag Kanye West is set on “work it, make it, do it” mode to become “harder, better, faster, stronger”. The street-smart rapper and billionaire mogul, has decided to expand his Yeezy clothing and sneaker line into beauty and skincare products and has filed legal documents for trademarks in make-up, face masks, nail polish, shaving cream, deodorants, aromatherapy pillows, and more. The billionaire’s beauty products will be in direct competition with his wife Kim Kardashian and his half sister-in-law Kylie Jenner. Fingers crossed. We’d see how this will pan out. 433 Million problems Foto Claudio Furlan – LaPresse<br /> 10 Marzo 2020 Brescia (Italia)<br /> News<br /> Tende e strutture di emergenza degli Spedali Civili di Brescia per l emergenza coronavirus<br /> Photo Claudio Furlan/Lapresse<br /> 10 March 2020 Brescia (Italy)<br /> Tents and emergency structures of the Civil Hospitals of Brescia for the coronavirus emergency As if being diagnosed with Coronavirus is not enough, a 70-year-old man has just added 433 million problems to his problem list. The American, Michael Flor, who nearly died of coronavirus has been billed a heart-stopping $1.1 million for his hospital expenses. Michael Flor was admitted to a hospital in the northwestern city and stayed for 62 days, at one point, coming so close to death. But he recovered and was discharged to the cheers of nursing staff only to receive a 181-page bill totalling $1,122,501.04 (₦433,532,351.67). How is he really going to pay this when it is clearly corona’s fault? The “Black Effect” LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA – DECEMBER 14: (L-R) Jay-Z and Beyoncé Knowles-Carter attend Sean Combs 50th Birthday Bash presented by Ciroc Vodka on December 14, 2019 in Los Angeles, California. (Photo by Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Sean Combs) In the spirit of fighting against intellectual theft, a Jamaican artist Dr L’Antoinette Stines has slammed the Carters, Jay Z and Beyonce with a lawsuit, for their song “Black Effect.” According to Stines, she was never given proper credit or compensation for the song which had her as the leading voice on the track. Stines, who is popular in her home country, is seeking redress in court for copyright infringement and violation of her right to publicity plus damages. She also wants a writing credit and everything that comes with that… and everything means monetary compensation. Freedom A section of the cast of LIB with Ramsey Nouah | Photo Instagram Still in the spirit of fighting for entitlements, a twitter user by the name, Louisajlo accused Ramsey Nouah, director of the popular Nigerian film, “Living In Bondage: Breaking Free”, of using her designs without compensation or credit, adding that all attempts to reach out to Nouah proved futile. Almost immediately after she revealed this, Nigerian veteran actress, Kate Henshaw, stepped in and informed her and the public that the media director who served as the twitter user and Nouah’s middleman, had been passing off her designs as his. Fortunately, she was compensated. 