Trains health, laboratory officials to combat community transmission
The Anambra State government has announced that it has successfully treated and discharged the last COVID-19 patient from its isolation centres. This followed the clean bill the state received in the last two weeks, as the figures showed that it recorded 66 cases of coronavirus, from which nine persons died. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala, who disclosed this in Awka, said, “We are pleased to announce that we have no COVID-19 patient in any of our protective care centres presently. The last case was treated and discharged two days ago. “Of the 66 confirmed cases, we had about 40 active cases two weeks ago. Most of them were managed at our protective care centre. We no longer have an active case. They have all been discharged. “We thank God for his mercies, but let us remember that COVID-19 is still very much around and so we must take responsibility for protecting ourselves and others.” He restated the need for residents to wear face masks in public places, observe all established health protocols and sought prayers for Governor Willie Obiano and all frontline workers for God’s protection. Okpala pointed out that the proactive measures put in place by the state government had yielded positive results. Declaring the two-day training for laboratory technicians on COVID-19 cases in Awka, he noted that the training of sample collectors on cases of the pandemic would help to prompt identification of the disease. He commended the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) facilitators for collaborating with the ministry in training the participants. The commissioner added that the decentralised collection centres would be manned by at least two trained personnel, who, he said, would collaborate with the ward task force already in place to identify persons with symptoms of the virus to enable them to collect the samples. On his part, WHO Coordinator in the state, Dr. Chukwumuanya Igboekwu, said the global health body was supporting the state to contain the coronavirus pandemic, saying it had built capacity of the state team, as well as provided technical and financial resources to respond to COVID-19 cases. Facilitator of the programme, Omobude Osas, said the training was crucial in view of the scourge, pointing out that the outcomes entailed effective knowledge in samples collection and packaging. Osas, an official of the National Reference Laboratory of NCDC, Abuja, explained that participants should be able to practice how to effectively use personal protective equipment (PPEs) in the council areas. Meanwhile, the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA) has concluded the training of health workers at primary healthcare facilities and community levels on preparedness and response to coronavirus. Speaking while monitoring the Awka South Council Area training programme in Amawbia, Executive Secretary, Anambra State Primary Healthcare Development Agency (ASPHCDA), Dr. Chioma Ezenyimulu, said the essence of the training for health workers and community volunteers was to further strengthen government’s efforts in the fight against COVID-19.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .