National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) is concluding plans to decongest overcrowded of Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps across the country. The move, according to the commission, was in consonance with the Federal government action plan policy to improve the devastating living condition of persons in IDP camps in the country. Federal Commissioner of Refugees Commission, Senator Basheer Garba Mohammad made the plan known during the weekend while flagging off agric input to 100 farmers in Kura local government area of Kano state ahead of farming session. Worried over millions of internally displaced persons especially those victims of insurgency from North-east, Senator Basheer disclosed the commission already fine tuning plans in collaboration with state governments to resettle overcrowded camps. To actualised the decongestion plan, Senator Basheer said the commission is building resettlement cities with social amenities across the states to accommodate the IDPs’. The Commissioner reminded that distribution of the farm inputs was part of reintegration program of the commission aimed at empowering farmers to boost food security in the country. He explained that the present ravaging situation occasioned by the deadly coronavirus has largely crippled economic viability of the nation while farmers among other, are critical incapacitated to meet the food security the nation required. Senator Basheer however revealed that the commission was under the instruction of president Mohammad Buhari to render humanitarian services to Nigerians especially the vulnerable and farmers who feed the nation. ” For us at NCFRMI, our duty is to provide support, protection and lasting solution for Refugees, IDPs and other categories of persons that may have been forced by the circumstances to relocate from their original homes. ” We intend to build the first NCFRMI Resettlement City Development Project in several states and aim to relocate displaced persons within the country. We have already designed prototypes for the project which is awaiting presidential approval”. Senator Basheer explained.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .