SIR: The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been consistent with contradictions. It is no different from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  It staggers my imagination to believe that Godwin Obaseki had a meeting with the president – before his resignation from the party and, his proposal was accepted. Is this president interested in the party that brought him to power, or only interested in power and prestige of office of President. I thought the APC is a party with structure with members prepared to change Nigeria, how come then, that a well thought-out group (supposedly) couldn’t/can’t manage internal disagreement leading to defections and some persons in the top hierarchy of the party behave like emperors. The gods elevated some people through individuals but these persons instead of advancing the mission of the gods suddenly turn around to play god themselves dealing folks blows with satanic rectus. While people die in Nigeria with insecurity succeeding each other in barbaric fashion, the APC has no blue print to solve the security challenges in the country. These call for a national emergency but the party does not care squat and some members are interested in ill-bred power plays. Put out statements about the inefficiency of this administration and you become public enemy. It is clear for all to see now, that they do not know where to take Nigeria and every road seems to be the best for them but how can. A party chairman who should be interested in peace, and give members hope became arrogant instead of being humble and envious of the academic credentials of a governor that he helped to install. False pride and superiority complex are some of the reasons the PDP failed Nigeria woefully. Conscience is not subject to majority rule, they claim they have the blue print to take Nigerians to seventh heaven but they tell only, they cannot show. We expected them to work for Nigeria but they end up working for themselves. The hardworking governor in Lagos State the other day was denied a second term because he didn’t understand establishment politics, he pissed off the party elders (purportedly) but in Edo State, it wasn’t about the elders but about an individual who couldn’t differentiate between labour politics and democracy. The latter is very hard; you need to be an ideologue to influence people who may follow your lead because they want to and not because they have to. And the former stress-free, anyone can be a labour leader, just cat-o’-nine-tails – sentiments such as, “increase workers’ salaries,” even with no industries employing thousands and the herd instinct would prevail. You become an instant star. Members of this party do not have shared assumptions which could lead to common national goals. They do not want to change themselves but lay claim to having the formula to change Nigeria. What I find off-putting is that when members do not have voices how can there be a connection culture with Nigerians? Just like the PDP, the APC has failed to give Nigerians an inspiring vision, and the party has failed to add value to the lives of Nigerians. Preachments do not change a country but a fitting knowledge of the enemy, a suitably trained personnel and the will to win. It doesn’t strike me that they have the will to win. A 21st century party should have purpose, believe in community and provide good leadership away from displays of aggression to party members. That party must display a sense of responsibility to the populace. I am no party man but it is binding on party members to judge the former chairman on three measures: did he do a bad work, good work or great work as party chair? Did he solve crises or helped to worsen them? Did he promote signature relationships to bring people together or used Fabian tactics to send them away from the party? Did he help party men and women fulfill their potentials? Now that Obaseki has left the APC, he would join another party and begin to curse the APC, put down the party philosophy forgetting that he promoted same values in his campaign to become governor. Nigeria’s democracy is a fraud.
Simon Abah wrote from Abuja.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .