The Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) has threatened to clamp down on traders who obstruct free flow of traffic at the Ladipo market, on the Oshodi-Apapa expressway corridor. The expressway is currently undergoing road reconstruction as the Oshodi-bound route is closed to traffic, with motorists plying the service lane. The usual congestion on the road due to the road rehabilitation is compounded by trading and trucks maneuvering to access Ladipo market and OK Foods at the Toyota Bus Stop. Reacting to The Guardian report on Monday, the spokesman of the agency, Mr Olumide Filade, said, “We were at that location twice two weeks ago, on Tuesday, May 26 and Friday, May 29 to evacuate all vehicles that were parked unlawfully along the road. We will have a repeat of the action to restore order and free flow of traffic in that area. “Most of the strategic roads in the Lagos metropolis are under reconstruction, from Mile 12 to Ketu, Ojota and Fadeyi inwards Onipanu on the Ikorodu Road (road resurfacing); a section of Alaka to Eko Bridge, after Funsho Williams Avenue; Iponri to Costain; Marine Beach Bridge inwards and outwards Apapa; Creek Road, Liverpool, and Tin Island to Berger/Suya. “In addition, the Apapa-Oshodi-Oworonshoki expressway is undergoing reconstruction by HITECH; Lagos-Badagry Expressway too is under reconstruction by CCECC. Irrespective of the above,” it disclosed. LASTMA said it had been managing and controlling traffic to calm the chaotic situation, ensure stress-free trips and reduce the travel time by regularly deploying personnel to all critical areas along the construction zones and failed portions of the road, in collaboration with other traffic law enforcement agencies. “We, therefore, seek the cooperation and understanding of the road users as the state government is striving to renew the infrastructure towards making the state one of the 21st century economies in Africa,” Filade said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .