‘Obaseki’s goodwill, performance will earn him victory’ Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2020 Edo State gubernatorial election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has challenged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to defend its ‘tax collector’ status citing his depiction from Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. Reacting to the party’s challenge to provide evidence of goodwill from former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, he (Ize-Iyamu) denounced the PDP as a “fallen party authoring an allegory of tax collectors and a Zacchaeus who must remain short in its non-negotiable second term ambition.” He asked the party to focus on its internal squabbles exacerbated by the divisiveness of Governor Godwin Obaseki who allegedly obtained the party’s ticket through a national imposition by induced tax collectors. In a statement issued by Director of Communication and Media of his Campaign Organisation, John Mayaki, he said, “The sun is dawning on a new era in the PDP. For a party that has almost faded into irrelevance, the saying that bad publicity is better than no publicity has come to define this new era.” Besides, the Edo State Focus Group (ESFG) has appealed to the electorate to make the forthcoming governorship election count by voting wisely.Its National Coordinator, Hope Hoppy Ebbih, urged them to unite and vote for the best candidate that could rescue the state from those it described as “disgruntled and unscrupulous politicians ravaging the state’s destiny.” In a statement in Benin City, he said from the beginning of democracy in 1999 and from PDP to APC, all those who governed the state had done so for their selfish interests as against the overall interest of the Edo people.He said Edo political gladiators had amassed so much wealth for themselves with little or no meaningful development recorded in the state for the past 21 years. Ebbih added that the group was founded to ensure credibility in the September 2020 election and beyond, insisting that it was also poised to protect the character and status of Edo voters. Meanwhile, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), political organisations and individuals across the state and beyond have expressed support for Obaseki’s reelection bid, insisting that his goodwill and performance would earn him victory at the polls. In a statement in Benin City, the Edo State chapter of PDP congratulated Obaseki, urging Edo people to sustain their support for him to enable him to consolidate on his rebuilding and transformation of the state. Also, the Edo People in The Diaspora reaffirmed its support for the governor’s re-election bid on the back of his giant strides in education, healthcare, urban renewal, agricultural development, social welfare, institutional reforms and good governance, among others. On its part, the PDP Youth Assurance Movement expressed confidence that the Obaseki’s candidacy would bring victory and fortunes to Edo people and the PDP. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .