Stakeholders seek end to killings, violence, child abuse, others The Lagos State House of Assembly yesterday urged strict implementation of rape laws, acceleration of rape cases in the courts, cancellation of stigmatisation of rape victims and punishment of rapists. In a motion entitled “Need To Curb The Incident of Rape, Defilement of Minors and Other Sexual Abuses” moved by Mojisola Alli-Macaulay (Amuwo Odofin Constituency 1) along with 12 others during plenary yesterday, the Assembly noted the alarming rate of domestic violence, rape, defilement of minor and other sexual abuses, particularly in Lagos State. Macaulay stated further that the House was disturbed by the catalogues of sexual abuse cases reported daily in the media, the reactions of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), and the ordeals of rape victims and related cases, which include emotional trauma, shame and victims committing suicide for fear of social stigmatisation. The House, therefore, urged Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu to direct the judiciary to ensure that perpetrators of any form of rape and defilement of minors are prosecuted speedily and in line with extant laws of the state. Besides, it urged the governor to direct the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Poverty Alleviation and Job Creation to ensure that the rights of every victim of sexual assault are protected through the domestic violence agencies in the state. The Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, stated that we didn’t have to wait till someone is raped before we take actions, adding that the motion was meant to prevent rape either among adult or young ones, males and females. Meanwhile, stakeholders have urged strict enforcement and implementation of laws against child trafficking, labour and violence, sexual abuse, killings of women and children and other issues of insecurity. The call was made during the 2020 stakeholders’ conference on child trafficking and labour organised by the Justice Development and Peace Commission (JDPC), Ibadan. Chairman, Network for the Defence of Child’s Rights, Alhaji A.A. Labiran, emphasised the need for the introduction of “more severe punishment” by the government against offenders. Another speaker, Mrs. Janet Oyewunmi, implored parents to be more proactive in the upbringing of their children, adding that women, especially, should teach their children about sexual education.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .