PDP senators hopeful of reclaiming states
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday ruled out electronic transmission of results in the forthcoming Edo and Ondo states governorship elections, insisting that there would not be collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) for the polls and by-elections. National Commissioner and Chairman, Electoral Operations & Logistic Committee, Professor Okechukwu Ibeanu, disclosed this at the commission’s virtual meeting with media practitioners. He said the electoral act was clear on the mode of transmission of election results, adding that doing otherwise would amount to going against the rules, saying, “The law is clear on how election results are transmitted and as you are aware, we are working with the National Assembly to review the electoral act. “INEC wants to deepen the use of technology in the electoral process and we are hopeful that we would probably begin electronic voting in 2021.” He cautioned voters to avoid coming to polling stations with face masks branded with campaign symbols/words, adding that the use of face masks remains mandatory at polling units and all election locations and that any voter without them or who wears mask with campaign slant will be turned away. In a similar vein, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the Senate has expressed hope that it would win the governorship election in Edo and Ondo states. Leader of the caucus, Enyinnaya Abaribe, told newsmen at the end of its meeting that the party considered internal matters germane to the caucus, adding that they also discussed matters related to the party and the recent party congresses held in all the states of the federation. His words: “We are aware that there would soon be governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states and so there is the need for the PDP not only to participate in the election, but to ‘capture’ the two states. “We also resolved that we will encourage our members in both states to be able to capture those states so we can increase the number of states under the PDP in the country’s leadership.” “Every election under the APC regime is turned into a battle front, so I’m using battle language. The PDP is ready to ensure that those states that were formerly under the PDP will return to its fold,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .