 Mr. Tunde Fagbounlu  In Nigerian Agip Oil Co. Ltd v. Delta State Environmental Protection Agency (2019) LPELR-46825 (CA), it was held that there is no equity about a tax. There is no presumption about a tax. Nothing is to be read in and nothing is to be implied. One can only look fairly at the language used. The applicable law must be interpreted strictly. The court unequivocally held that the Taxes and Levies (Approved List for Collection) Act, 2004 is a competent existing Act of the National Assembly, which has covered the field in respect of the tier of government authorised to collect specific taxes and levies.  “In summary, in my humble view, only the State Government has the power to collect taxes on lotteries and gaming activities. Such collections by the Federal Government would be deemed illegal under the Taxes and Levies (Approved List for Collection) Act, 2004 as amended by the Taxes and Levies  (Approved list for collection) Amendment Order 2015.”
 
A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Mr. Tunde Fagbounlu said two different things must be distinguished concerning the issue, which are the power to regulate lottery and that of taxing the proceeds of lottery business. To him, in regulating lottery, there may be a dispute between the federal and state governments as to which of them has the power to regulate, which he said depends on interpretation of the Constitution.
  
“Finally, there has been a dispute over whether VAT applies to the proceeds of the lottery business. That, however is not a dispute between federal and state governments but it is rather a dispute between the lottery industry, on the one hand, and the governments on the other hand,” he explained.
 
In his observation, a former Secretary of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Kunle Adegoke said the answer depends on the nature of the gaming or lottery involved.  According to him, where the gaming or lottery is basically an intra-state commercial activity, the power to tax same is vested in the state but if it becomes an interstate commerce, the power to regulate and tax same is vested in the Federal Government.
   
Adegoke explained further that since Nigeria is a federation with devolution of powers between the three tiers of governments “the powers of the National Assembly to make laws are constitutionally limited to: (a) any matter included in the Exclusive Legislative List; (b) any matter in the Concurrent Legislative List set out; and (c) any other matter with respect to which it is empowered to make laws in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution.”  “Incidentally, whereas there is no specific mention of online lottery in the National Lottery Act, the Lagos State Lotteries (Amendment) Law, 2008 specifically mentions “public online lottery” and seeks to regulate it. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to consider which, as between the Federal Government (National Assembly) and the State Governments (Houses of Assembly), has the power to regulate gaming and lottery on one hand and online lottery activities on the other hand. “In addressing this point, we must immediately state that neither the Exclusive Legislative List nor the Concurrent Legislative List contains any mention of gaming, lottery or gambling. In Edet v Chagoon, the Court of Appeal (Nigeria) held that pool betting and casino gaming do not appear in either Part I (Exclusive legislative list) or Part II (Concurrent Legislative list) of the 2nd Schedule to the 1999 Constitution. Not being an item in the Exclusive Legislative List or in the Concurrent Legislative List and not matters incidental or supplementary to the execution of any powers in the Exclusive Legislative or even the Concurrent Legislative List, pools, betting and casino gaming are residual matters. Being residual matters, they are within the legislative competence of the House of Assembly of a State. Thus, gaming, pool betting and lottery generally is within the legislative competence of a State House of Assembly.”
 
Another senior legal practitioner, Chief Goody Uwazurike said the issue has been in various courts for interpretation. “As a matter of fact, the current Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) and the minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), vigorously challenged many grey areas of the Constitution in the Supreme Court when they served as commissioner and governor respectively in Lagos State. He said: “Some of the grey areas were on physical planning, sales and consumption tax, creation of local government, control of waterways and of course gaming and lottery control. The Federal government created a Luxury board that competed with the Lagos state lottery board. The problem now is that Lagos state and Federal government belong to one party. Both Lagos and the Federal government are still flexing muscles, the decision of the court notwithstanding. The operators, like the coastal waters businessmen, pay both sides in the interest of peace. Only the Supreme Court has the final say!”
 
Anti-piracy crusader, intellectual property and human rights lawyer, Mr. Akeem Olaniyi Aponmade said what is paramount is the legal basis of the dispute between the Federal Government and State Governments. “I see the unnecessary fight as emblematic of palpable ignorance on the part of the officials of the two arms of government with regards to the functioning of a lottery or gaming business combined with insatiable greed for tax revenue,” he said. He flayed the operators as knowing next to nothing about the laws that underpin their authority to collect revenue for government.
   
According to him, they go on harassing members of the public for no just cause. “Go and read through the provisions of the Constitution, you will not find anywhere where the words ‘lottery’ and ‘gaming’ were used therein. Neither in the Exclusive List nor Concurrent List will you find any provisions empowering the Federal Government to tax companies carrying out gaming or lottery business other than for capital gains and company income. It is absolutely illegal for the Federal Government to seek to tax a company just for carrying out lottery business,” he said. In conclusion, from the various arguments it could be said that most of the commentaries favours the state to collect the disputed taxation just as stakeholders in the business are much convinced and believe the state is at a vantage position to collect the lotto and gaming tax. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .