Northern Elders Forum (NEF) has said that President Muhammadu Buhari and the governors in the region have lost the capacity to end insecurity. NEF, led by Professor Ango Abdullahi, lamented at the weekend that the group was alarmed at the rising insecurity in communities in the North. According to the Arewa elders, the Northerners are known to be patient with any adverse situation confronting them, but with this present uncontrollable state of insecurity, “our people have been pushed to the wall.” In a statement, NEF asserted that “recent escalation of attacks by bandits, rustlers and insurgents leave the only conclusion that the people of the North are now completely at the mercy of armed gangs who roam towns and villages at will, wreaking havoc. “It would appear that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari and governors have lost control over the imperatives of protecting people of the North, a constitutional duty that they swore to uphold. “The situation is getting worse literally by the day. Bandits and insurgents appear to sense a huge vacuum in political will and capacity, which they exploit with disastrous consequences on communities and individuals.” It is no exaggeration to say that the people of the North have never experienced this level of exposure to criminals who attack, kill, maim, rape, kidnap, burn villages and rustle cattle, while President Buhari issues threats and promises that have no effect.” Professor Abdullahi cited instances where armed bandits have taken initiative, after studying the lack of capacity of Government to protect its people, noting that “the situation under which our communities from Kogi to Borno States, from Sokoto to Taraba States live is no longer tolerable”. “As a responsible body, the Forum has joined millions of others in prayers and in giving advise and encouragement to all authorities that have responsibility to protect our communities.It is now time to say, enough is enough.” “ Our people are known for their patience and respect for constituted authorities, but all governments must be aware by now that all Northerners have been pushed to the wall.The Forum is aware that some citizens are contemplating peaceful protests, which are their constitutional rights, to draw attention of President Buhari and all levels of authority to the plight of people of the North.” “ The Forum urges all citizens to conduct themselves in peaceful and responsible manner, and it urges governments to respect the rights of citizens to express their opinions peacefully. The Forum is also consulting other groups and organizations which share its goals and concerns to lend our voices to the demands for action and relief from the unremitting assaults on our lives and livelihood as Northerners.” “The Forum reminds President Muhammadu Buhari that provision of security and pursuit of economic welfare of citizens are the only two constitutional responsibilities of the state which all leaders must achieve.” Said Abdullahi: “Our current circumstances in the North clearly demonstrate that  President Buhari’s administration has woefully failed to achieve either. This is unacceptable.We demand an immediate and comprehensive improvement of our security in the North”. “ We are tired of excuses and verbal threats which criminals laugh at, and our fellow citizens see as a clear failure of leadership which they see as part of them. Enough is enough”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .