Ekiti, Kaduna, Imo, Katsina and Plateau states recently blazed the trail by implementing the right of way (RoW) resolution of the Governors’ Forum in a bid to deepen broadband penetration in the country and promote a digital economy for a digital Nigeria. Right of way charge of per meter of fiber optics cabling is considered one of the most vexatious and biggest hindrances to growth in the industry It is, however, disheartening that some states have decided to disregard these resolutions and have, in some cases, increased the RoW charges by over 1,200 percent. Experts believe that if all states in the country can implement the resolutions, it will facilitate digital literacy and accelerate broadband penetration across the country and also improve Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Apart from implementing the resolution on RoW, regulatory authorities must draw from its political will to prevail on the states and local governments to stop insisting on collecting taxes and levies on operators’ infrastructures such as base stations and masts. The cankerworm of multiple taxes by local, state and federal governments and their agencies is threatening the survival of the telecom sector. At last count, the industry estimate they pay over N20 billion annually to various agencies of government. Also, the problem of insecurity, which has assumed alarming proportions, is discouraging further investments. Added to this, are the constant harassment, intimidation and killing of workers in the industry while the equipment are stolen every day. Another major problem is the thorny issue of Nigeria’s public power supply, which seems to have defiled all known solution. A situation where telecom operators spend an incredible N45.9 billion (approximately $2.9 Billion) annual bill on diesel in running power supply to their infrastructure is unacceptable. Power supply is like the nerve, in fact, the engine of production. The near absence of public power supply has a devastating effect on businesses and has forced many companies to close shop because they could no longer remain competitive. Regulatory authorities must find an appropriate way to communicate to governments at all level that the current RoW, tax, public power as well as state of insecurity cannot create a knowledge-driven economy of a so-called new economy in which the generation and the exploitation of knowledge play the major part in the creation of wealth.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .