Akwa Ibom State Police Command has read the riot act to those who cannot control their sexual urge, to leave the state as the command would not condone such dastardly behaviour any longer. This was contained in a statement released by the command and signed by the Police Public Relations Officer [PPRO] CSP N-Nudam Fredrick, and made available to newsmen in the state yesterday. The Command explained that most of the victims were lured by their offenders with the aim of sending them an errand with the promise of giving them gratification when they help them execute such errand successfully. “Following a distress call on Monday, 8th June 2020 at about 4:30 pm, Police Operatives at Abak swung into action and arrested a 38-yr-old confessed cultist, one Ekemini Asuquo Aya ‘m’, of No.7 Afaha Obong/Etim Ekpo, Abak. Investigation revealed that the suspect, Ekemini Asuquo ‘m’ who claimed to be a tailor, on Monday, 8th June 2020 at about 1:30 pm, lured one Stella Ntia ‘f’, aged 14yrs old with a sum of one thousand five hundred nairas (N1500) to Celebrity Hotel, Abak where he forcefully had carnal knowledge of her and thereafter snatched the said money from the victim. The suspect also threatened to kill the victim if she reports the incident to the Police. “In a related development, Operatives of Nsit Atai Division on 2nd June 2020 acted on credible information and arrested a 55-yr-old man, one Udo Ekong Esau ‘m’ of Odot 1 village, Nsit Atai Local Government Area on the allegation that he forcefully had carnal knowledge of her stepdaughter, one Glory Etim Effiong ‘f’, aged 15yrs old of the same address sometime in March, 20220 and impregnated her. The suspect, Udo Ekong Esau having realized that his stepdaughter was pregnant chased her out of his home. “Similarly, following a complaint on 24th May 2020, by a Youth Corps member, one Emmanuella Okpala Kosi ‘f’, aged 21yrs who is on primary assignment in Uyo that she was gang-raped by one Ofonime Emmanuel Essien ‘m’, aged 25yrs of No. 15 Iba Oku Street, Uyo and Frank Okon ‘m’, Detectives of SCIID, Uyo swung into action and arrested one of the serial gang rapists, one Ofonime Emmanuel Essien ‘m’, while effort is on to arrest Frank Okon who is now at large. “Investigation revealed that the victim visited her colleagues at No. 15 Iba Oku Street and later took her phone to the room where the suspects are living at the same address for charging and met Ofonime Emmanuel who pretended to be asleep, while Frank Okon and two girls were in the room. However, shortly after the victim left for her colleagues’ room in the same compound she was called by Frank Okon that Ofonime Emmanuel was awake. The suspects swooped down on the victim and serially gang-raped her as she entered the room. “All the suspects have confessed to the crime and will be arraigned in court immediately. “Consequently, the Commissioner of Police warns unscrupulous sex maniacs and others engaging in sexual abuse of minors and other females to desist forthwith, as the Command will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute them”, the statement warned. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .