Woman Discovers She Is A Man After Rare Health Condition Image MedicalExpo A 30-year-old woman in Kolkata has just discovered she is a man after doctors say she is suffering from a rare health condition. For thirty years, she has lived a normal life with no complications, until recently, when doctors in Kolkata diagnosed her with a very rare condition that can be found in one out of 22,000 people. She was diagnosed with Testicular Cancer. The 30-year-old woman, who is a resident of Bengal’s Birbhum and has been married for the last nine years, had visited the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Hospital in Kolkata with severe pain in lower the abdomen a couple of months ago. Dr. Anupam Dutta and Dr. Soumen Das conducted her medical tests and found her “true identity” during treatment. In the words of Dutta: From her appearance, she is a woman, starting from her voice, developed breasts, normal external genitalia. However, the uterus and ovaries have been absent since birth. She has also never experienced menstruation,” Dr Dutta told PTI. We conducted clinical examinations, after she complained of abdominal pain, and found out she has testicles inside her body. A biopsy was conducted, following which she was diagnosed with testicular cancer, also called seminoma. As her testicles remained undeveloped inside the body, there was no secretion of testosterone. Her female hormones, on the other hand, gave the appearance of a woman. When the doctor was asked about how the woman reacted to the news, he said: The person has grown up to be a woman. She is married to a man for almost a decade. Currently, we are counselling the patient and her husband, advising them to continue living life as they have been. The couple has also been trying to conceive to no avail. It was also discovered that her 28-year-old sister, who underwent necessary tests following the revelation, was also diagnosed with “Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome”, a condition in which a person is genetically male but has all physical traits of a woman. Also, The patient’s two maternal aunts have also been diagnosed with Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome in the past. This has led the Oncologist to believe that the condition is most likely in the gene. Currently, she is undergoing chemotherapy and her health condition is stable according to a report by NDTV.