 overnor Godwin Obaseki PHOTO:Twitter  The six aspirants who have bought, completed and submitted the Party’s expression of interest and nomination forms are Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, H.E. Godwin Obaseki, Rt. Hon. Dr Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Hon. Osaro Obazee and Hon. Matthew Aigbuhuenze Iduoriyekemwen. APC in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu explained that the decision was aimed at ensuring due diligence and transparency in the screening exercise. Apparently referring to the circumstances surrounding the nullification of its victory in the Bayelsa governorship poll, the party explained that the measure was due to its “recent shocking experiences, and to avoid any lapses in the process.” It noted: “Therefore, we are making the submitted information and documents of the governorship aspirants available to our party members and the public for verification of claims and to support the screening panel with information or any objection to the claims contained in the submission by the aspirants. ‘Consequently, the various submissions will be displayed at the Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja and in Benin City, the Edo State capital from Monday 8th to Tuesday 9th June 2020 for claims and objections. “We are inviting party members and indeed members of the public to assist the screening committee by scrutinizing the information, credentials and documents provided by the governorship aspirants and availing the Screening Committee of counter and correct information, if applicable.” Recall that in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, APC had earlier released its time table and schedule of activities for the conduct of the 2020 Governorship Primary Elections in Edo States. Accordingly, sales of nomination and expression of interest forms began at the APC National Secretariat from Wednesday 20th May to Tuesday 2nd June 2020. The last day for submission of completed forms and accompanying documents was Wednesday 3rd June 2020. As earlier stated, the publication of claims and objections will be from Monday 8th to Tuesday 9th June 2020. Screening of aspirants has been slated for Wednesday 10th to Thursday 11th June 2020. This will be followed by Screening Appeal which will hold on Friday 12th June 2020. The Primary Election will hold on Monday 22nd June 2020, while Election Appeal has been slated for Wednesday 24th June 2020. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .