No thanks to the novel COVID-19 pandemic, lifestyle businesses in Nigeria like spa and saloons, among others, are experiencing intense decline as they are still shut down without hope of reopening anytime soon. The CEO of Barazahi, a spa and wellness lifestyle outfit in Lagos, Linda Edozien, however, told The Guardian that businesses in the sub-sector have been looking forward to re-opening. According to her, many business owners in the sub-sector have been preparing themselves on how to serve their clients better when normalcy is restored. She said: “Basically spa and salons have been shut down for the last three months and we are just waiting to be cleared for reopening by the authority. Although some of these businesses have gone ahead to open. But during this downturn of business, we have tried to remain positive and improve ourselves especially because of our all-encompassing outfit, which is a one-stop-shop for a lifestyle where we have salon, spa, hammam and gym for male and female clients. We have been doing this so that when we open we will serve our clients better. “So, while we are waiting for a go, our therapists have been undergoing zoom training by Biologique Recherche in order to keep them well updated on the brand and procedures. Of course, we have spent the time also learning how to operate in these unprecedented times. It is a whole new culture. Even though we have prided ourselves with cleanliness in the past, we have to take it to a whole new level as we will be constantly disinfecting tools, surfaces and ourselves, as well as maintain social distancing as much as possible.” On the risks associated with the spa and salon businesses at this period, she said: “Right now there are risks associated with everything we do, which is why we have gone all out for updated training and better ways to keep our clients safe from the pandemic. A client actually called me recently and said that our spa treatments are essential to her quality of life. Even the stress of this new way of living calls for body therapy in order to detox and relax. So yes, clients are going to be choosy about the places they go to for their beauty and wellness therapies and this is why we are ready to take all measures to keep the virus at bay.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .