A human rights and good governance advocacy group Make A Difference (MAD) has asked the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to declare one Livinus Elem wanted for his suspected involvement in the gang rape and murder of an undergraduate of University of Benin, Miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa. This was contained in a statement issued by the Communication and Advocacy Director of MAD, Lemmy Ughegbe in Abuja. He said, “by his own free will statement on his Facebook page, Livinus Elem had admitted to knowing fully about the acts that led to Miss Vera Uwaila Omozuwa being raped and killed.” According to him, in reaction to a news report on Miss Omozuwa’s gruesome killing, Livinus Elem was said to have posted on Facebook thus: “Good for her. Why will she be dating two room mates the same time?” However after condemnation by other Facebook users of Mr. Elem for the said statement, he pulled down the post and deactivated his account. “Elem’s statement disclosed prima facie evidence, warranting the police high command to arrest him and investigate him for complicity in the gang rape and murder of Miss Omozuwa,” Ughegbe said. “There should be no distinction between an apologist of the rapist and the rapist proper. At worst the apologist is an enabler of sexual violence and ought to be arrested, investigated and if need be, prosecuted for accessory before the fact of and conspiracy to commit murder”, Ughegbe stated. “Mr. Elem is vital to this investigation and must be smoked out of his hiding place to help with police investigation”, he added. He noted how the Inspector General of Police had treated with levity cases of other sexual violence acts and rape and called on him to turn a new leaf. The Police chief failed to declare Mr. Victor Ogbuja wanted for conspiring with his father Andrew Ogbuja to serially rape and sodomise Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbanje for five years until she died at age 13, owing to health complication as a result of long years of violation. Victor Ogbuja has been on the run from the law for nearly two years following the death of Ochanya. He was initially charged alongside his father, Andrew for rape and culpable homicide. But the charge was severed following his disappearance to enable the trial of his father proceed. “It is curious why the IGP has refused to heed calls to declare Victor Ogbuja wanted and cause his arrest”, Ughegbe stated. MAD said the police chief must show that he fully supports efforts to create a safe environment for children and other vulnerable members of the society by leaving no stone unturned in bringing the culprits to book. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .