 Babajide Sanwo-Olu  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, yesterday said that the late Senator Sikiru Bayo Osinowo lived an exemplary life. Sanwo-Olu and Obasa spoke yesterday during a special parliamentary session held in honour of Osinowo at the Lagos State House of Assembly.The governor, who stated that a lot of people had expressed how and what they knew about Senator Bayo Osinowo, said that the deceased meant different things to different people. He said that members of the State Executive Council had a special session for the late senator on Monday because of his level of contributions to the development of the state. While eulogising the late lawmaker, Obasa said that no one wanted to die, including those who wanted to go to heaven.He stressed that the late Osinowo was a major general in the corridor of Nigerian politics. Meanwhile, Lagos State government said it had paid about N13.75 billion pension backlog in the last one year. Commissioner for Establishment, Trainings and Pensions, Mrs. Ajibola Ponle, who disclosed this yesterday at a press briefing to announce the commencement of the 2020 online verification of the state pensioners, said the payment of the backlog was because the governor takes pensioners in high esteem. She said that the state’s 2020 edition of the bi-yearly verification exercise for its about 6,000 retired officials, usually known as “I AM ALIVE”, would be held virtually where an online biometric and facial verification would replace the existing status quo, adding that the new approach represents a total departure from the usual verification exercise whereby pensioners are expected to be physically present at their respective local councils for the verification and revalidation of their documents. She said the modalities for the online verification involves pensioners using any of the specified online applications by this office to have access its officials to verify their documents and the fact that they are alive. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .