Martha Lucia Micher | Image: Daily Mail A Mexican female senator has issued an apology after going topless during a government video while trying to change without realising her camera was still on. Martha Lucia Micher, 66, was unaware her camera was still on when she started to get changed during the live meeting last week. The incident occurred during an official meeting on zoom, a measure taken by the Mexican government during the coronavirus pandemic to avoid unnecessary risk of contagion. Martha Lucia Micher has now issued an apology for her mistake, blaming it on her lack of tech knowledge. According to local media, the meeting was attended by at least 15 senators from the left-wing National Regeneration Movement political party who convened with the governor of the Bank of Mexico and press representatives. In an open letter shared online, Micher explained the incident: “Yesterday an unfortunate incident occurred during a virtual meeting with fellow senators about the current economic situation in Mexico and strategies to confront the ‘new normal’ over the coming months. “In one part of the session, without realising and while the camera of my computer was on, I got changed showing my naked torso. I carried on participating in the session and thanks to a call from senators Alejandro Armenta Mier and Ovidio Peralta Suarez, I realised my error.” Martha Lucia Micher | Image: NewsChain The senator went on to offer an apology, saying that there are certain rules of conduct which nobody is exempt from and blamed the mishap on her not yet mastering these new forms of digital communication. Screenshots of the topless senator soon began to circulate on social media, prompting mirth and cruel comments about her appearance and physique online. Micher, who is also the president of the State Commission of Gender Equality, responded to these criticisms in her letter, in which she said that she is not ashamed of her body. “I am Malu Micher, and I am not ashamed to have shown part of my intimacy by accident, because it is exactly the notion that a woman is ‘just her body’ that has allowed and fomented the objectification of women against which I have always fought. “I am a woman of 66 years of age who has breastfed four children, three of whom are today professional and responsible men, and I feel proud of my body for having nourished them. “I am a woman who has fought for the left for almost 40 years and who has occupied various public roles in my fervent commitment for the defence of human rights, I am a woman who is not ashamed of her body, I love it and I take care of it.” Many other colleagues and politicians also retweeted her letter and posted on social media to show their support for the senator. Fellow senator Ricardo Monreal Avila wrote: “In view of the attacks against her, a product of a mishap during a virtual meeting, we endorse our fellowship. Morals and integrity will always be stronger than infamy and assaults.” Another senator, Maria Elena Morena posted: “The rubbish stinks in the senate and on social media. Our political and party differences should have limits.” According to media sources, it has yet to be discovered who took and leaked the screenshots. Fellow party member Martha Tagle wrote: “I will investigate and sanction those responsible for taking and leaking these photos. The violence to which you were subjected cannot go unpunished.”