Until August 6, 2019, it would have been difficult to imagine that Nigerian soldiers could aim at a moving vehicle, kill three police officers and two civilians guarding a kidnap kingpin, without a scratch on the handcuffed suspect, Bala Hamisu Wadume. Fortuitously, five other police officers in the vehicle were injured. Only the suspect survived the attack without a shrapnel touch. Assuming such Hollywood kind of precision was a fluke, what followed was even more bizarre. The suspect was freed from the handcuff against all logical reasoning and allowed to escape before he was re-arrested two weeks after by the police. In his confession, he reportedly implicated soldiers in the deadly escape.
  
Wadume was arrested August 6, by a team of anti-crime police officers in Ibi, Taraba state as a result of his alleged involvement in numerous heinous activities in the state. He was being taken to Jalingo, the state capital, when soldiers manning a checkpoint along the road opened fire on the police team, killing three officers and two civilians. Following public outcry, an expansive investigation was launched to unravel the culprits behind the violence, amidst allegations that soldiers of 93 Battalion, Takum, Taraba and top local police officers connived in the fatal operation to prevent Wadume’s arrest.  But the attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Taraba State, Mr. Sam Adda told The Guardian that politics triggered the interest of the federal government is handling the prosecution. “These are political matters. It is legally laced with politics. At a point, soldiers were supposed to be included in the list of people that are supposed to be arraigned before the court, but it is not so now. It took the intervention of a lot of powerful and influential people to ensure that military authorities produced the captain in question in the first place for investigation,” he lamented, emphasizing that the whole process has been politicised.  Also, Access to Justice said it is concerned about the takeover, by the AGF of the prosecution of Wadume, Capt. Balarabe and 18 others allegedly indicted in the acts of homicide and kidnapping. The AGF, it admitted has powers under the Constitution to take over and even terminate criminal proceedings undertaken against anyone, in the public interest.
  
“So, the legal authority of a takeover of the case from the police is not, ex facie, questionable. However, there is no justification given by the AGF for the takeover, and there is no indication whether the police, of their volition, invited the takeover by the AGF. Therefore, the nature of the public interest sought to be protected by the AGF’s takeover action is not obvious at this time.
  
“However, precedence does trigger concerns about the motive of the takeover. The AGF’s office has been known to take over cases for ostensibly politically-motivated reasons, only to subsequently direct the cases towards politically arbitrated outcomes. Politically-motivated takeovers of cases will nearly always be at odds or be in conflict with the public interest, given that the goals of both classes of interests are often countervailing. Many sections of Nigerian society will feel apprehension over this action by the AGF, particularly given, as has been said, the very troubling records of the AGF’s office in this regard, and especially too, the antecedents of this case, the efforts to cover-up the roles played by military forces in the alleged crimes, alongside efforts to change the course of justice and ultimately help some people evade accountability for the killing of policemen who put their lives on the line to fight a horrible crime ravaging our country for such a long time now,” Mr. Joseph Otteh, Director of Access to Justice stated. 
  
The AGF, he maintained, must truly uphold the integrity and independence of that office, for it would be “a treacherous betrayal of the trust placed on the AGF’s office by the Nigerian Constitution, where the Attorney General to use a takeover as a way to subvert justice in any case.” Otteh expressed the hope that that would not be the plan. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .