Georgia Oboh Georgia is the biggest Nigerian export in ladies golf. The teenage multi-international award winning professional golfer, who plays on the Ladies European Tour (LET), has been among the top rated lady players in the world since she turned professional two years. But she says she doesn’t want to be the lone ranger any more. Oboh, who has been in Lagos since the outbreak of the coronavirus, says her main
goals are to become the best female golfer in the world and elevate the game in Africa, paving the way for African girls to achieve their dreams. Among other honours in her young career, Oboh has been a teen Golf World Champion, a youth Olympian, African and British youth golf champion, youngest African to become a professional member of the LET, as well as a standout performer and history making star in African golf and the world. She is a role model championing the development of golf in Africa and the world. “My objective is to be a bright beacon of light to help under-privileged African children uplift themselves and transform their lives through sports, paving the way for them to see the possibility of achieving their dreams too. “I have played professional golf tournaments all around the world from Africa to Europe, North America, Asia, Middle East and Australia. As a golfer, I am attracting more attention as a standout figure in the game as a young black woman in a predominantly white male dominated sports from all the stakeholders in golf, with particular attention from the media in Africa and the world as Africa’s rising star,” she said, adding, “I have played in tournaments with television daily viewership of over one million.” The Edo-born girl already has a social media presence, with substantial following on Instagram and Twitter. She has also developed excellent communication and teaching skills with appearances on numerous live television and radio shows, news conferences and promotional events around the world, most notably on BBC, Skysports and SuperSports, among other local and international media outlets. Her bid to attract more youths to the sport, Oboh has severally been approached by the Nigerian Golf Federation (NGF), Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Section, First Bank of Nigeria Plc (as their youth Ambassador), the First Tee programme in Florida, U.S., and the Ladies European Tour (LET) to speak to and teach young kids about golf in sit down sessions and golf clinics. Although the COVID-19 pandemic has forced the suspension of all sports events, Oboh is looking forward to going back to the game when the lockdown is lifted. This, she says, is the only way she can inspire the youths to take to sports and make meaningful use of their natural talents.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .