 The newly sworn in Appeal Court President,  Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem. See story on Page 5  Justice Dongban-Mensem was the second woman to preside over the Court of Appeal following the retirement of Justice Zainab Adamu Bulkachua on March 6. At the inauguration, which took place at the Supreme Court premises, the CJN charged her to maintain the credibility of the appellate court. The CJN also challenged the new president to live up to expectations by maintaining a cordial relationship with her colleagues on the Appeal court bench. At the inauguration attended by governors of Sokoto, Plateau, Niger and Kebbi, Justice Muhammad reminded the new Appeal Court President that the court has the largest number of Justices in the country, hence the need to be up and doing. He specifically counselled Justice Dongban-Mensem to ensure regular meetings with Presiding Justices in all divisions of the court as well as other Justices to enable them to understand challenges that may face the court. The CJN further tasked the new appellate court president to continue with her good character, behaviour and hard work, adding that the sky will not only be a limit but a stepping stone for her. “From my personal experience, the workload in the Court of Appeal, especially in the divisions, is the highest. It is a home of work, it is a home of cooperation, but with your experience, hard work and zeal, you will not find your new status difficult. “If you sustain your good character and conduct, your tenure will definitely be an excellent one. Try to be your self and do not allow others to derail you. Remain what we know you for”, CJN added. In her remark, the newly sworn-in PCA, said she felt honoured and challenged to be appointed into the office of the President of the Court of Appeal, based on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari. She assured Nigerians that she will do her best in ensuring that justice is applied at the appellate court. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .