Sho Madjozi | Image: Instagram/Shomadjozi South African singer-rapper Sho Madjozi has accused Burna Boy of taking down the remix of Stormzy’s “Own It” on which she was featured following her BET nominations. Sho Madjozi in a lengthy Twitter thread claimed that Burna Boy asked Stormzy’s team to take down the remix of the hit song after on which she was featured after she was nominated alongside Burna Boy for Best International Act in the 2020 BET awards. “For those asking where the #Ownitremix is, after I got nominated alongside him for BET Best International Act, Burna boy asked Stormzy’s team to take down the song immediately. Song was out for a whole month before that, no problem.” “Own It” by British rapper Stormzy originally features Ed Sheeran and Burna Boy. A remix featuring Sho Madjozi was released in May, however, the song has now been taken down. “Everyone nominated has done big tings and should be confident that their work will speak for itself. Personally I’m happy with the work I have done in the past year. John Cena was an international phenomenon, I did that” Sho Madjozi also claimed that she and Burna Boy were on good terms until she was nominated alongside him for this year’s BET awards. Madjozi claims Burna Boy took it down because he felt she was a threat. Burna Boy is up for Best International Act for the second year in a row after taking home the award in 2019. Meanwhile, Sho Madjozi bagged the award for Best New International Act last year. “Well, i guess it’s a good sign if manna shook. Last year BB and I were cool at the BETs. I guess everyone thought this little girl isn’t a threat, now same category!?!? It’s shaking” “In the words of the great Toni Morrison, ‘If you can only be tall because someone else is on their knees, then you have a serious problem.’ This world is full of bullies. If I leave any message at all from the life I’ve lived, I hope it’s to not be discouraged and to not be intimidated. To stay loving, kind and honest in the face of cruelty. “I’m also the only woman in the category for best international act. Next year let’s have more. Goodluck to everyone nominated. It’s up to the judges now  (I hope they heard my own it verse before it was taken down)” Burna Boy in his response tweeted that the removal of the song had nothing to do with him or the awards as the remix wasn’t “properly” cleared with his record label. “Own It is NOT my song.If my voice is on it however it should have been properly cleared.If the remix wasn’t cleared with the label(Atlantic US)it automatically gets flagged. Nothing to do with me personally or any award. Always best to reach out professionally. Congrats on BET’s!”