Scene of the incident The police authorities appear helpless over incessant killings in Akinyele Local Government Area of Oyo State, as another woman was killed yesterday, bringing to five the number of killings in the same area in three weeks. Wednesday’s incident was a 42-year-old woman, Olusayo Fagbemi, who was hit with a machete while she was washing plates in front of her house at Sasa area of the local government in the early hours of yesterday. This also calls to question the functionality of Operation Amotekun, established by the southwestern states some months ago. Akinyele is fast becoming a killers’ den as the latest incident raised fears of residents after Fagbemi was murdered, in the same area where four persons had been sent to their early graves. Fagbemi was attacked with either a shovel or a cutlass on her head. As she was hit with the weapon, she shouted, which made her husband to rush out from their room and on getting outside, he met his wife in a pool of her own blood. The attackers reportedly took to their heels immediately they sighted her husband and other residents of the house coming out. The woman was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital for medical attention to save her life, but she was confirmed ‘brought in dead’ (BID) at the hospital. A resident of Sasa, who preferred anonymity, said the community suspected ritualists to be behind the incessant killings in the local government area. He said, “I do not want my name to be mentioned because those evil people may be residing in the same community with us, and I don’t want them to zero down on my family. I think communities should set up vigilance groups to address this ugly trend. Also, the security agencies and the state government should halt the incessant killings in this local government area.” Another resident said: “This is getting serious. It is no longer funny. If we don’t see any serious action from those concerned, we will be forced to embark on a serious mass protest. Enough is enough.” Another source who referred to the deceased as ‘Iya Islamia’, called on the security agencies and the state government to put an end to the incessant killings in the local government area. The killing came two days after a five-year-old boy, Mojeeb Tirimisiyu, was murdered in the backyard of his parents’ house at Tose area of the council. The first case was an 18-year-old Barakat Bello, who was killed on June 1. The second was Azeezat Somuyiwa, a pregnant woman who was killed on June 5 and the third was a student of Oke-Ogun Polytechnic, Saki, named Grace Oshiagwu, who was reportedly raped to death at her parent’s residence in Idi Ori, Sasa, Ojoo, Ibadan. The Oyo State police command, through its Police Public Relations Officer, Olugbenga Fadeyi, confirmed the incident. “At about 5:40a.m. on Wednesday, Ajibade Street, Sasa Area of Akinyele LGA of Oyo State, one Olusayo Fagbemi ‘f’ aged 42, was attacked at the frontage of her house when washing plates. “She sustained injury on her head. On hearing her shout, the husband rushed out and met her in the pool of her blood while the assailant(s) ran away. She was rushed to a hospital where she was confirmed dead. The police are on the trail of the assailants,” the PPRO said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .