Deploys two fire-fighting trucks to state 
In a bid to reduce the rate of fire outbreaks, the Federal Government, through the Federal Fire Service, yesterday deployed two fire-fighting trucks to Oyo State to assist in combating incessant fire outbreaks. Inaugurating the trucks at the Oyo State Secretariat Complex, Ibadan, the Controller-General, Federal Fire Service, Dr. Liman Ibrahim, decried the recent spate of fire outbreaks in Oyo State. He said the recent reported cases of fire incidents at Akesan Market in Oyo town, Aleshinloye Market in Ibadan, tanker fire disaster in Moniya-Ibadan, among others, prompted the Federal Government to deploy the two fire-fighting trucks to the state. The Controller-General, who was represented by the Assistant Controller-General, Mr. Callistus Agu, said it was the belief of the Federal Government that the deployed fire-fighting trucks would enhance state government’s efforts at combating the incessant fire-outbreaks “with the attendant wanton destruction of the social and economic values of the people.” He, therefore, sought a robust collaboration with the state government, asserting that fire-fighting is the responsibility of all. He also urged the state government to sponsor personnel of the state fire service for training. Meanwhile, Governor Seyi Makinde, represented by his deputy, Alhaji Rauf Olaniyan, said the deployment of the two fire-fighting trucks was in the right direction, noting that it would complement the state government’s fire fighting and preventive efforts. Olaniyan revealed that the deployment was made at the time the state government was about procuring five state-of-the-art fire-fighting trucks. He said few fire-fighting trucks were functional while some were in state of disrepair and moribund when the present administration came on board, but the situation had improved. He further posited that there was need for all the three tiers of government, corporate bodies, relevant associations and individuals to put in place necessary proactive measures to reduce losses through fire and other disasters. He also charged the officers of the Service to carry out their statutory functions in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .