 Inspector Adekunle after he was attacked  It was gathered that the Sergeant went berserk at the weekend after drinking alcohol at a nearby liquor store and returned to his compound in Oke-Odo. The Guardian gathered that both the Sergeant and Inspector were tenants in a compound with other civilians. On that night, the Sergeant allegedly engaged in his usual intimidation of civilians after being drunk and was chasing a man about with a cutlass when the Inspector, said to be attached to the Special Protection Unit (SPU) 2 Ikeja, intervened.
Not minding that Inspector Adekunle was his senior, the Sergeant pounced on him with the machete, leaving several cuts on his legs and body. It was gathered that the victim was rushed to the hospital where he died on Monday morning. Police sources who hinted on the issue appealed to the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to bring the Sergeant to justice, saying that he has been a threat to his neighbours and the entire vicinity where he live. “He drives a fully tinted Toyota Camry car with no number plate. He was reported at the Okeodo, Ile Epo Police Station for his previous actions but nothing was done to call him to order before he perpetrated this evil act. I saw Inspector Adekunle on Sunday evening on his hospital bed. Unfortunately, I received a call from his brother, Ojo Adekunle that he passed on Monday morning. “The doctor also confirmed his death. I am using this medium to appeal to CP Hakeem Odumosu to do the needful and prosecute this killer Sergeant that has been terrorising everyone in the vicinity. This kind of character should not be in the Nigeria Police Force,” an officer lamented. Police spokesman, Bala Elkana, confirmed the arrest of the Sergeant, adding that the CP has ordered investigation into the incident. “This did not happen in the barracks. They both stay in town with other civilians. They were neither on duty nor anywhere near police facility when it happened. I have to correct that impression because a lot of people have been calling me to say it happened inside barrack.
“No matter where it did happen, a crime was committed and the suspect is in custody,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .