Nigerian judiciary has always been the arm of government that citizens usually look up to, in times of conflict as it is all over the world. This is even more pronounced in developing countries where political conflicts that usually result in judicial adjudication is the norm. Whether the judiciary has lived up to expectation within the last one year of President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term is for citizens to determine, but what is clear is that the courts could fare better notwithstanding the circumstances. This is in consideration of the level of criticisms that the apex court has received in the last year, following its decisions on political cases. Each of the decisions has created more conflicts and ended up triggering the desire to further appeal by aggrieved disputants, had there been such opportunity. The flurry of criticisms against the judgments of the apex court in recent times is alarming. This, some stakeholders attributed to what they described as “executive assault” on the judiciary in 2019, although the buildup started since October 2016, when judicial officers’ homes were raided by state security agents.  Generally, we cannot say that our judiciary has performed abysmally low in the discharge of their duties recently, but they have equally not been quite fantastic. We believe there is always a room for improvement and we pray for such in the near future,” Nwokedi declared.  It cannot be imagined how a Federal Agency, can make rules affecting the revenue of a State Government. This is despite the fact that the NJC carters for all the Judges in Nigeria, but the revenue collected by the State High Courts are State revenue,” he explained. Suggesting that the National Assembly and the various State Houses of Assembly immediately pass a proper and forward-thinking Coronavirus Act/Law to enable the courts to amend their Rules in that regard, Umoren said in England, where Nigeria took her laws from and in Australia, the Rules made to meet the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic were made pursuant to the Coronavirus Act, 2020. He, therefore, charged legislators to copy and pass such laws instead of going to copy a law passed in the 1970s in a country that had less development and judicial activism than Nigeria in the 1970s. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .