The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), in partnership with Siemens Integrity Initiative (SII), is set to expand its Collective Action initiative in Nigeria to engender a strong port authority compliance environment, as well as, encourage civil compliance in ports and terminals. The project, which will be implemented by MACN and the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi), will run from this year to January 2023. A statement by Executive Director of MACN, Cecilia Müller Torbrand, said: “The SII is a very competitive funding call that has supported some of the leading anti-corruption initiatives globally over the years. For MACN, CBi, and our local stakeholders, the support from Siemens is fantastic recognition of our Collective Action work, and the impact we had in the Nigeria port and maritime sector.” She further said: “The project builds on, and will be integrated into MACN and CBi’s ongoing work in Nigeria, sponsored by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark. As a result of the SII support, MACN will expand its work into multiple agencies and port users, enabling greater public-private sector dialogue on integrity issues. Also, it will equip local players with proven Collective Action methodologies to drive change, whilst supporting maritime industry Collective Action initiatives.” On her part, CEO, Siemens Energy Nigeria, Onyeche Tifase said: “This initiative boosts Siemens efforts to support the establishment of higher integrity standards and fairer market conditions in Nigeria. We are looking forward to making this project a joint success, as this will create the platform for the cultural changes that are necessary to improve trade flows in and out of Nigeria, and support the social economic growth the Nigerian government is targeting.” Executive Director and Co-Founder of CBi, Soji Apampa also noted that the project would lead to more effective seaports and terminals services, as well as prevent corruption practices and ultimately benefit any business using seaports or terminals in Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .