• Man arrested for phone theft in church The police in Ogun State have arrested one Osas Onyeokwenu and his wife, Tomisin Onyeokwenu, for allegedly assaulting a 20-year-old ex-girlfriend of the man. It was gathered that the couple had lured the victim into an uncompleted building, where the wife used a pair of scissors to tear the victim’s clothes, leaving her naked. The state’s Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, yesterday said Tomisin also allegedly inserted an empty bottle of Alomo bitters into the victim’s private part. According to Oyeyemi, the couple was arrested after the victim lodged a complaint at Agbara divisional headquarters. The police spokesman hinted that the couple also snapped the victim naked, threatening to upload it on the internet if she dares report the incident to anybody. The couple, it was gathered, owned up to the crime, but pleaded that they regretted their actions. Meanwhile, the police in Anambra State have arrested a 29-year-old man, Valentine Chukwu, for allegedly stealing a phone in a Catholic Church in Awka during mass. SP Haruna Mohammed disclosed this to journalists on Monday, saying that another suspect, Osoko Chukwuma had first been arrested with a Huawei phone worth over N80,000, but further investigation showed that the phone was stolen from a church in Awka by Chukwu who gave it to Chukwuma. “On Friday, June 19, police detectives attached to ‘B’ Division Awka arrested one Osoko Chukwuka ‘m’ aged 42 years of Amede village, Mgbakwu with a Huawei Medipad T3 phone valued at N80,000 reasonably suspected to have been stolen. “Preliminary investigation further led to the arrest of the principal suspect, one Valentine Chikwado Chukwu. The suspect confessed to have stolen the phone on May 28, at the Catholic Chapel Retreat Centre Okpuno Awka, from where the owner, Ijeoma Igbokwe, plugged it for charging in the church during service and sold the phone at the rate of N10,000.” Case will be charged to Court for prosecution.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .