Stethoscope PHOTO: Gage Skidmore/Flickr The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD) says it embarked on Nationwide strike to press home members demand for improved welfare and working condition. Dr Adejo Arome, the ARD President, Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Jabi, Abuja, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. Arome explained that members refused to call off the strike aimed at providing better remunerations, working conditions and modern equipment for members. The ARD president said doctors are working under what he called inhumane and unhealthy conditions that exposed them to dangers. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the medical doctors had on June 4, issued a 21-day ultimatum threatening to embark on industrial action should the government fail to meet their demands. Arome urged State Government to ensure that doctors and other healthcare workers in state owned institutions have remunerations at par with their counterparts in federal institutions. He, however, lamented that government has not shown enough commitment that would necessitate the suspension of the strike. He advised all members of the association to stay at home until further directives were given from the NARD on the two weeks industrial strike. Arome, who expressed deep regret on any disruption the action would cause patients, explained that the association gave a two-week ultimatum to avert the strike, but no action was taken. “It is a known fact that we are serving humanity but it should not be at the detriment of our own wellbeing as the welfare of every health worker is important. “Government’s insincerity further deepens the discouragement experienced by members as they face the outbreak on coronavirus,’’ he said. He lamented that in spite the very infectious nature of COVID-19 and other related diseases there is no insurance cover for the health workers. He, however, called on all training institutions to immediately domesticate the medical residency training act, while appreciating the FMC, Jabi, for domesticating the Act. Arome also condemned the casualisation of doctors and other healthcare workers that are employed and being used extensively but they end up getting meager wages. He appreciated the association’s members who were working without fear in the face of the pandemic, while also appreciating their family members who have been supportive all along. “We appreciate and stand by the NARD NOC in its resolve to ensure that the Nigerian doctors and healthcare workers were treated fairly,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .