The House of Representatives yesterday canvassed a review of the country’s foreign policy with a view to liberating blacks all over the world from killings, violence, oppression and discrimination. This followed a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Garba Dati Muhammad at plenary presided by Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila. Consequently, the House mandated its committees on Foreign Affairs and The Diaspora to organise a conference of local and international stakeholders aimed at tackling discrimination, annihilation, genocide and racial cleansing being perpetrated against Nigerians, Africans and black people all over the world. Dati, who moved the motion against the backdrop of the recent murder of George Floyd, said it was unfortunate that dehumanisation of Nigerians, Africans and blacks was continuing across the world, particularly in the United States (U.S.), Europe and Asia. Citing reports of endless dehumanisation of blacks across the globe, he said it was worrisome that political independence and civil rights legislation were yet to translate to freedom for black people still living in bondage. Besides, Senate Deputy Minority Leader, Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) lamented that the Senate was incapacitated to debate the current global protest against racism after the killing of Floyd because of the many unresolved injustices in the country. He said Nigeria lacked the moral capacity to accuse the U.S. of injustice, as citizens visit injustices on fellow Nigerians at home, adding that the country should learn from the U.S. in the unfolding anti-racism protests. Responding, Adamu Aliero (APC Kebbi Central), who relied on order 43 on personal explanation, countered Bwacha and craved Senate’s indulgence not to entertain any matter that may generate unnecessary controversy. Senate President, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan explained that order 43 was not subject to debate and if any senator chose to come under personal explanation, and anyone felt there was anything to be addressed, it could be done later. He urged Nigerian leaders to take advantage of the country’s diversity to foster unity, peace and development. Meanwhile, a security scholar at the University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Professor Oyesoji Aremu, advocated personality profiling of police officers globally following the murder of Floyd in the U.S. Aremu, who made the call in a statement in Ibadan, Oyo State, pointed out that records of police brutality have shown that less-privileged citizens were the most targeted. “The killing of Floyd resonates one of the dark sides of the police. Irrespective of countries, the police could engage in extra-judicial killings. This, has again, revealed that something is fundamentally wrong with some police officers either here or in other climes,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .