An Arabic inscription for God (Allahu) was conspicuously discovered at No. 12 Solanke Street off Lagos Abeokuta Express Road, Iyana Ipaja Lagos State, the house, which belongs to a renowned Islamic cleric, the Founder and Proprietor of Markaz Salam for Arabic and Islamic studies, Sheikh Moshood Ramadan Jibreel. The daughter of the cleric, Rifuat Jibreel who came visiting from Republic of Benin, discovered the name.   According to her, She came to Lagos to visit her mother who stays at Iyana Ipaja. She was asked to sleep in the room where the name was found. “On my arrival to Lagos to visit my mum, I slept in my father’s bedroom which was reserved for guests after his relocation to his permanent site in Ojokoro. “When I woke up the following morning, I decided to rearrange the room. During the course of rearranging the room, at the down part of the wardrobe, I discovered a big bag, which contains Arabic literature books. I brought out the bag. Then I saw the inscription ‘Allah’ in Arabic on the wall. To my surprise, I brought out my phone and snapped it to be sure. As I was doing that, one of my cousins came in which I showed the inscription and asked her not to tell anybody till I informed my father to avoid people trooping to our house. In the evening, I went to Ahmadiyyah in Ojokoro where my father stayed to inform him about the inscription on the wall in the house,” she said. One of the sons of the cleric, Alhaji Talhat Jibreel said this is the first time such a sign appears in the house and even the owner of the house never mentions anything like that. “It is over 13 years since the cleric relocated to his permanent site. The particular room where the sign was found was the personal bedroom of the cleric, but after his relocation to Ojokoro the room was assigned to visitors”. He described the clerics as an upright person and a firm believer in the ones of Allah.“For me this is a random occurrence and a beautiful phenomenon, this is obviously a sign that Allah exists,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .