The Governor’s Advisory Council (GAC) of the Lagos State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), formed and headed by the party’s national leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, wielded the big stick recently.
 
In a swift move, GAC proscribed all groupings in the party after its meeting on Wednesday.  The shock wave reverberated across several political tendencies.
 
Observers were quick to interprete the developments as a sign of the “crack in the Bola Ahmed Tinubu political dynasty”. But it was not really new to many party insiders.  The state APC Chairman and member of GAC, Tunde Balogun, said all groups have been dissolved, just as he added that the Justice Forum (JF) and the Mandate Group (MG) were also affected by the ban.
 
But, as soon as the decision was taken, it was immediately interpreted among members of the public, who have long insinuated about the possible cold war between Tinubu and Aregbesola, took it to hook, line and sinker that the bond between the two political allies has finally burst.  As a sitting governor, the minister was said to be planning for a successor other than Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, who enjoined Tinubu’s endorsement. But Aregbesola not only bowed to Tinubu’s preference for Oyetola but also worked for APC to retain control of the state without exposing his displeasure.
 
A source within Osun APC stated: “What pissed Aregbesola was the manner his successor had been trying to frustrate the minister’s political structure in the state since he took over in 2018.”
 
The Guardian was reliably informed that the relationship between Aregbesola, Tinubu and Oyetola worsened when the minister discovered that most often, his successor visited Lagos, especially the Ikoyi residence of the national leader without branching to pay homage to him in his Lagos residence even when the governor knows that Aregbesola was in Lagos  It was gathered that GAC’s decision was instigated by Obasa to insulate himself from the excesses of MG members in the state Assembly.
 
“The appointment of Enilolobo by Aregbesola as the new leader of MG was considered an affront by Obasa. It was also seen as a threat to the political future of the Speaker, both in the Mandate Group and in Lagos and not necessarily that Tinubu used the GAC’s decision to embarrass his friend,” the source disclosed.  “If members of JF, who are allegedly instigating Hamzat to contest in 2023 have their way, the crisis that such a development may generate may ultimately fall on the shoulders of the national leader, particularly considering the fact that he (Tinubu) was said to have tried to frustrate former governor Babatunde Fashola in 2007 and Ambode in 2018. Ruling Party And Political Grouping In Lagos
NO sooner had the former Military Head of State, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) started the transition to civil rule programme than Oba Hamzat, who had been a staunch political ally of Jakande since the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) days, left the former governor, Alhaji Jakande, to form the People Resolved Irrevocably to Maximise the Resources of the State for Excellence (PRIMROSE) alongside the likes of Bashorun Olorunfunmi, Kola Oseni, Tinubu, Henry Ajomale and others, to support the governorship ambition of Chief Dapo Sarumi.  Some commentators point to that take-over as the root of the crisis in Lagos chapter of Afenifere. Leaders of the Yoruba socio-cultural group had supported Tinubu on the grounds that Williams was too closely associated with the military government.
 
They, however, fell apart with Tinubu and his allies, including Hamzat, after opposing Tinubu, who, after winning the 1999 governorship election, consciously alienated Dawodu.
 
Realising that if Tinubu could deal with Dawodu, he could also turn against him and his group in the party, Oba Hamzat formed the Justice Forum, alongside with his PRIMROSE colleagues, while governor Tinubu and Aregbesola, formed the Mandate Group.
 
As governor, Tinubu allowed his friend to direct the affairs of MG. The two groups, however, collaborated to achieve common goals when AD transmuted to Action Congress (AC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) and later APC. Yet, the rivalry between them did not cease.  Tinubu, Aregbesola’s Rift Inconceivable
LOOKING back at the history of their relationship, it would be inconceivable that Tinubu and his protégé, Aregbesola, would throw caution to the wind and engage in a battle of wits.
 
Apart from serving as commissioner of works from 1999-2007 under Tinubu, Aregbesola benefitted from Tinubu’s influence to emerge as Osun State governor.  Also, when the PDP wanted to muscle Aregebesola’s reelection in 2014, the national leader threw his weight to support him.
 
But Tinubu’s loyalists noted that Aregbesola started referring to Tinubu as “my brother and my partner”, rather than the usual “my leader and my mentor”. A top member of the party told The Guardian it would be very difficult if not impossible for the minister to confront Tinubu in whatever way and for whatever reason not to talk of the affinity between the family of the two politicians, especially their wives.  Rationalising GAC’s Decision
ACCORDING to GAC, all groupings in APC like MG and JF, are inimical to the party’s unity and were therefore permanently disbanded and prohibited.
 
It charged Balogun with the task of promulgating more detailed regulations as to the prohibited and permissible activities for sub-party groupings, limiting reference to the names for historical purposes only.
 
In a communiqué, the council warned that party faithful members should no longer use the factions or their names for future party businesses and activities. “Continued holding of meetings in the name of the groups or to promoting such associations will amount to a violation of this resolution,” the communiqué stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .