The Enugu State Ministry of health in the early hours of Saturday confirmed the first Coronavirus  (Covid-19) disease death in the state. The state also confirmed three new cases of the virus. The development now brings to 30 reported confirmed positive cases in the state. A statement from the Commissioner of health, Dr Ikechukwu Obi stated that the three new cases had travel histories, adding that two of the new cases are male patients admitted for other severe underlying conditions at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH), Ituku Ozalla, Enugu. "They are being treated at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital (UNTH) Enugu, and who on a high index of suspicion were transferred to the hospital's holding area while the State’s rapid response team was contacted for sample collection", he said He added, however, that: "On a sad note, one of the patients in UNTH with severe underlying conditions had died before the results returned" He further explained that the other case was also a male patient who developed symptoms and contacted the COVID-19 emergency number, stressing that he was assessed and subsequently invited for sample collection. "Two of these cases hail from Nkanu West LGA of Enugu State and the other from Enugu North LGA. "Two of them came into Enugu State from Lagos while the other person came in from Rivers State", he said The Commissioner, however, disclosed that 3 more cases have tested negative and consequently discharged from the isolation and treatment centres. He added: "Thus, the current state of COVID-19 cases in Enugu State is as follows: 30 reported cases, 13 active, 16 discharged and 1 death. "To avoid COVID-19, do not forget to; Stay home when it is not absolutely necessary to go out
Wear a facemask/covering whenever you must go out. Keep a safe distance from other people at all times, which is social/physical distancing and avoid crowded places Practice good respiratory hygiene (when coughing or sneezing) Clean surfaces with a 1 in 6 concentration of bleach and water, Wash your hands with soap for 20 seconds under running water as often as possible and when facilities for handwashing are unavailable, sanitize your hands as often as possible using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer".  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .