A High Court in Port Harcourt has granted an order of interim injunction restraining the All Progressives Congress (APC) from recognising or regarding Victor Giadom as acting national chairman of the APC and a member of its National Working Committee (NWC). Two members of APC in Rivers State, Dele Moses and Azunda Wori had filed suit PHC/360/2020 challenging the validity of Giadom’s claim as the acting national chairman of the APC. The defendants are the APC, Adams Oshiomole, Victor Giadom, APC Acting Chairman in Rivers State, Igo Aguma and Babatunde Ogala (National Legal Adviser, APC) The claimants had urged the court to declare that sequel to the resignation of Giadom as Deputy National Secretary of the APC in 2018, for the purposes of contesting in the 2019 General Election as Deputy Governor of Rivers State, he was no longer the Deputy National Secretary of the party. They also prayed the court to declare that Giadom was not a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC, has resigned his membership of the NWC of the APC for purposes of contesting in the 2019 General Election as the Deputy Governor of the APC in Rivers State. The court was therefore urged to declare that the resignation of Giadom as the Deputy National Secretary of the APC in 2018 was valid and effective from 2018 till date. To this end, the claimants prayed the court to declare that Giadom was not the National Chairman, or Acting National Chairman, or Deputy National Secretary or otherwise howsoever a member of the National Working Committee of the APC. They then urged the court to grant an order restraining Giadom from issuing, signing or endorsing any document or correspondence to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman of Acting National Chairman or howsoever as an officer of the APC. The court was asked to grant an order of perpetual injunction restraining the APC, Oshiomole, Aguma and Ogala from recognising or regarding Giadom as either a member of the National Working Committee (NWC), the Deputy National Secretary, National Chairman of Acting National Chairman of the APC. Upon the motion of exparte filed by the claimants, Justice Florence Fiberesima has issued an order barring the party from recognising Giadom as its Deputy National Secretary, has resigned from that office to contest in 2019 General Elections as Deputy Governor candidate of the party in Rivers State. The court further restrained Giadom from issuing, signing or endorsing any document or correspondence to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) or any other body or institution in the capacity of the National Chairman of Acting National Chairman of the APC or howsoever as an officer of the APC. The matter was adjourned to July 1, 2020, for the hearing of motion of notice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .