Matteo Valdambrini Image The Mirror A university student, Matteo Valdambrini, led a Satanic sect and sexually abused young people, forcing them to eat what he said was human flesh according to The Mirror. He referred to himself as The Devil and has been arrested in Italy after the allegations came to light. He has been charged with 13 counts of sexual violence, slavery, and having images of child abuse. He is accused of leading a sect and convincing members to perform sexual acts with him by telling them they would receive supernatural powers. It was further claimed that he forced at least 13 young people, some aged 17, to suffer sexual violence in the forests of Prato between 2018 and 2019. The suspect, who was studying at Firenze University, told his victims they had been chosen to save the world. Further investigation on how he chose his victims reveals that he reportedly selected his victims by looking for vulnerable people online and through word of mouth. Also, he is alleged to have created a “resurrection ritual” where he would be strangled by new members of the sect before pretending to be dead and then standing up as if resurrected. He was also alleged to threaten his victims to stop them from reporting the abuse and told one girl she had to have sex with him or her seven-year-old sister and parents would die. The victims were convinced that having sex with him could get rid of their demons. He was further alleged of giving the children human meat, on New Year’s Eve 2018, the victims were told to eat human meat he claimed to have bought from a man selling bodies in Florence. Victims were reportedly forced to send naked pictures of themselves to the leader of the sect, and as some of them were minors he has been charged with child pornography. The sect’s rituals reportedly consisted of physical violence, with victims being told to have their arms bitten so they could have supernatural powers “like vampires or werewolves” and the suspect claiming to his followers he could change into different creatures. An investigation is still ongoing regarding the allegations.