The Group Managing Director (GMD), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari has said that the 200-bed emergency and infectious diseases hospital; is to overcome security challenges aggravated by coronavirus (COVID-19) in Northeast. According to him, the hospital was strategically sited in Maiduguri, Borno state to overcome security challenges fueled by COVID-19 pandemic. While laying the foundation at the weekend in Maiduguri, Minister of State for Health, Olorunibe Mamora and Kyari disclosed: “When the hospital is completed, the NNPC would also provide medical facilities, logistics and support for patients. “This proposed emergency hospital; was strategically sited in Borno state, along Maiduguri/Damaturu road; due to decade long Boko Haram insurgency that is being aggravated by COVID-19.” The foundation laying ceremony was also attended by Governor Babagana Umara Zulum along with top government officials. Kyari noted that the siting of emergency hospital in Borno should not be seen as a favour done the state. He added that similar hospital is being built in 12 other states, spread across the six geopolitical zones of the country. Continued: “It is not really a favour to the state; it is something that really needs to be done, and something we are challenged to do.” According to him, NNPC was acting on the directive of President Muhammadu Buhari whom he said: “had particularly told NNPC to pay attention to Borno by doing everything possible to make sure that there are energy, security, and exploration activities in the state.” “And we are focused on delivering on all those in Borno state.” “This is part of federal government’s efforts in combating COVID-19 across the country,” he said. According to him, the hospitals project was designed to complement and strengthen the country’s national healthcare delivery systems. He said even though; COVID-19 has destabilized the social, cultural, religious, economic, and health system, the pandemic however; came as a blessing for the country. His words: “At the end of pandemic there would be many landmarks of infrastructural development across the country. “The establishment of this infectious diseases hospital; would serve as a landmark achievement in Northeast region.”
He added that the Presidential Task Force on Prevention of COVID-19, headed by the SGF, Boss Mustapha, “is committed to supporting the state to fight coronavirus pandemic.
Zulum had earlier lauded the NNPC and its collaborating partners for helping to ease the difficulties faced by residents. “What we’re seeing today is part of the institutional capacity building measures envisaged by President Muhammadu Buhari and delivered by the NNPC and its allied organizations in the oil sector”. “The selection of Maiduguri for the building the gigantic health outfit is quite apt because of its strategic location within the geopolitical zones and for it being the epicenter of humanitarian crises resulting from the insurgency.” He noted that Borno is already battling with the pandemic of Lassa fever and others even before the advent of COVID-19. His words: “Borno State had lost about 201 health centers as a result of the destruction of the Boko Haram insurgency. “As you have seen, about 60 per cent of the populations are now residing in the state capital. “These emergency hospital; will go an along way in reducing congestion in different hospitals.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .