David Guillod Image USA Today A Hollywood producer and talent manager has been charged with multiple counts of rape, sexual assault, and kidnap of four women in California. David Guillod, an executive producer on ‘Atomic Blonde’ and ‘Extraction,’ is the latest to be swept up in the #MeToo movement, which led to Harvey Weinstein’s 23-year jail sentence for rape and sexual assault in March according to report by The Daily Mail. Guillod surrendered to police Monday morning in Santa Barbara, near Los Angeles, accompanied by his attorney after a three-year investigation led to him being charged with the rape and sexual assault of four women. He faces a total of 11 felony charges for the incidents spanning back to 2012, and a maximum sentence of 21 years to life in prison, Santa Barbara prosecutors said. However, the lawyer for Guillod has said the producer has denied all the charges. Guillod has been publicly accused of sexual assault by ‘Ted’ actress Jessica Barth, who said the producer had drugged her during a 2012 meeting, and first reported the allegations to the Los Angeles Police Department the same year. The case was investigated by the Los Angeles police but closed two years later. Barth was also among the many women in the movie industry who were subjected to inappropriate and in a number of cases criminal behavior by a convicted rapist and disgraced former Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, who is currently serving a 23-year sentence. Barth went public with the allegation in 2017, in the wake of the #MeToo movement, and after another actress reportedly contacted her with a similar account, and returned to the LAPD asking officials to pursue the investigation. The actress claims that she went to dinner with Guillod and another woman, and started to feel drowsy while at the table. Guillod stepped down as chief executive of Primal Wave Entertainment soon after. On Monday, he was charged with incidents involving three unnamed women in Santa Barbara, and one in Los Angeles on May 21, 2012.