The Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) on Monday met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja, where they tabled their position on the leadership crisis threatening to tear the party apart. PGF Chairman and Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu gave the indication while speaking to State House Correspondents after meeting with the President. Governor Bagudu, joined by the governors of Plateau and Taraba States; Simon Lalong and Abubakar Badaru, also said the president gave backing for meetings by all necessary organs for a peaceful resolution of the burgeoning crisis threatening the soul of the party. He said President Buhari also assured the APC governors that steps will be taken with a view to restoring sanity within the party. He explained that although President Buhari would not force his will on the APC  leadership, he was following the unfolding developments within the party and was readily disposed to any move that will calm the storms. “The reason for our visit is to discuss with him as our party leader, as the leader that millions of Nigerians trust, to discuss party issues and the position of the Progressive Governors to support all steps to unify and bring about peaceful resolution in our party, the All Progressives Congress,” Bagudu said. “Mr President listened attentively and discussed as a father, as a party leader and he gave us all the assurance we needed to know that resolution of contentious issues will soon be arrived at. “I think our party, the All Progressives Congress is a party that believes in dialogue and contentious issues arise when you are dialoguing and we will recall that because of the sanctity, which President Buhari attaches to constitutionalism, we held our national convention literally at the same time we are holding primaries because Mr. President has always said that we told Nigerians that our party is going to be a party of due process and we will do that no matter the challenge of the moment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .