Meghan Markle believes she was “destined” to quit the United Kingdom and move to the United States to help in the fight against racism. Meghan Markle – Madame Figaro – AFP PHOTO – POOL – Ben Birchall A close friend of the Duchess of Sussex told Daily Mail that Markle is making moves to see how she can be part of the solution and considering going into politics in order to fight: “Meghan said her work as a leader is more important than ever right now and that she’s been speaking with Oprah and other community leaders on how she can be part of the solution. “Meghan feels like her mission goes far beyond acting. She said she wants to use her voice for change and hasn’t ruled out a career in politics.” Meghan Markle and her husband Prince Harry quit their royal duties earlier this year and moved to Los Angeles in March. Earlier this month, Markle spoke about George Floyd and other African-Americans whose deaths have sparked anti-racism protests in the United States and across the world. The former Suits actress said that she didn’t speak up earlier because she was nervous. “I wasn’t sure what I could say to you. I wanted to say the right thing and I was really nervous that it would get picked apart,” she said while addressing graduating students at her old school, Immaculate Heart High School in Los Angeles, which she attended from the age of 11 to 18. “I realised the only wrong thing to say is to say nothing because George Floyd’s life mattered and Breonna Taylor’s life mattered and Philando Castile’s life mattered and Tamir Rice’s life mattered … and so did so many other people whose names we know and whose names we do not know.” Markle, who was born and raised in LA, shared her memories of the riots that occurred in the city in 1992, which she described as similarly triggered by “a senseless act of racism”. She went on to apologise that the world isn’t “in a place where you deserve it to be”. “I am so sorry that you have to grow up in a world where this is still present,” she said. She urged the students to take action and be leaders in inspiring change as they forge a path outside school. “We are going to rebuild and rebuild and rebuild until it is rebuilt. Because when the foundation is broken, so are we,” she told the students. “You are going to lead with love, you are going to lead with compassion, you are going to use your voice in a stronger way than you’ve ever been able to, because most of you are 18, or you’re going to turn 18, and you’re going to vote. “I know you know that black lives matter, so I am already excited for what you are going to do in the world. You are equipped, you are ready, we need you and you are prepared.”