Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has nominated his deputy, Philip Shaibu, as running mate in the September 19, 2020 governorship election in the state. Announcing Shaibu’s nomination at the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national secretariat in Abuja, yesterday, Obaseki said there was no need to change a winning team. Shaibu was a member of the Edo State House of Assembly and later became a member of the House of Representatives. Earlier, Obaseki received his Certificate of Return from the PDP leadership. Presenting the Certificate of Return, the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, said the primary election that produced Obaseki was well-conducted and in line with the party’s Constitution. Secondus said PDP’s National Working Committee (NWC) had ratified the Edo State primary election’s report. He said Obaseki’s defection and eventual emergence, as PDP candidate was divine, and in line with Edo people’s interest. “With what happened to them in their former party, they decided that it would not be a war. When you desire something good and you have the support of your people, war is no alternative. They abandoned war in their former party in pursuit of good governance, justice and equity and fair-play. They came to our party and we received them, because we believe they have performed.” Commending Obaseki and Shaibu for delivering good governance in Edo State, Secondus decried the maltreatment meted out to them by the All Progressives Congress (APC) leadership. “We have listened to everyone in Edo. Why were they were badly treated? The reason was very flimsy. Did they not perform well? The entire country, even those that were against them believe that they have performed. He has provided infrastructure in all facets of economic development in Edo State. We must put our personal issues behind the interest of the people first, if not, we will be guided by sentiments…” Also, Chairman of PDP Electoral Committee in charge of the primary election in Edo State, and Governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed, presented the report of the election to the NWC. Mohammed said the other three aspirants’ withdrawal from the race made the primary election hitch-free.
He said: “There was no rancour. There was no confusion. Our eyes were on the ball. All contestants obeyed the rules and regulations established by the party. We were transparent. Election was free and fair. At the end of the day, we discussed extensively, and three of the contestants mooted the idea of stepping down voluntarily…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .