The Federal Government has inaugurated a Steering Committee on the Nigeria Digital Identity for Development Ecosystem Project to facilitate the implementation of the strategic roadmap for accelerating digital identity development in Nigeria. Inaugurating the Committee, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who is also Chairman of the Team, said digital identification was central and critical to realising objectives of government’s Economic and Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP). He said the strategic roadmap, approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) on September 12, 2018, “Is a culmination of the collective efforts and contributions of institutions and stakeholders, which began in 2015 when the government decided to forge a credible and cost-effective pathway for identification management.” This was disclosed in a statement issued by the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC’s) Head of Corporate Communications, Kayode Adegoke at the weekend. “To accelerate implementation of the Strategic Roadmap, therefore, government considered and adopted a three-tiered institutional arrangement comprising a Steering Committee, a Strategic Unit, an Implementation Unit with responsibilities for providing overall governance and coordination, ecosystem partners’ coordination and communication, as well as daily project implementation,” the statement added. Adegole explained that the committee was established to provide policy, institutional and operational guidance towards delivering on the identification vision and promise of the Strategic Roadmap. “President Muhammadu Buhari appointed members of the Steering Committee. You are, therefore, charged to steer the project to accomplish government’s objectives, consolidate efforts to date and deliver goals outlined in the Strategic Roadmap,” it said. Members of the Steering Committee are Mustapha (Chairman), Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed (Alternate Chairman), Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, his health counterpart, Osagie Ehanire, Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Ali Pantami, Director General, National Orientation Agency, Dr. Garba Abari and Director General of NIMC, Aliyu Aziz (Secretary). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .