Fabbriche di Careggine | SDE The Italian village of Fabbriche di Careggine that is currently buried at the bottom of a lake is set to resurface. Famous for the production of iron, the medieval ‘ghost village ‘was founded by a group of blacksmiths in the 13th Century. Residents had to move to a nearby town of Vagli di Sotto in 1947 when a hydroelectric dam was built. The village was lost when it was flooded to create the artificially made Lake Vagli. However, the village is set to reappear once again as announced by Lorenza Giorgi, the daughter of the ex-mayor of the Municipality of Vagli di Sott. Every time the lake is emptied, the village slowly emerges. Since the dam’s construction, the lake has been emptied only four times for maintenance work. The last time the village was seen rising from the deep was in 1994 with thousands flocking to Fabbriche di Careggine to walk along its streets. Fabbriche di Careggine | The Mirror Photos that were taken at the time show that beneath the water, the village’s stone houses, cemetery, bridge and the all incredibly remain intact. Lorenza Giorgi, daughter of Ilio Domenico Giorgi, has claimed in a Facebook post that the lake will be emptied next year. She wrote: “I inform you that from certain sources I know that next year, in 2021, Lake Vagli will be emptied. “The last time it was emptied in 1994 when my father was mayor and thanks to his commitment and to the many initiatives that, with effort, had managed to put up in one summer the country of Vagli welcomed more than a million of people. “In 1994 my father tells me that it was difficult to attract such a large number of people and that everything was done without burdens on the administration (besides those of ordinary representation of a small municipality). “I hope that next year, strong of the experience of which everyone has a beautiful memory and with the help of social networks, we will be able to repeat and overcome the great success, with just as much attention.” Fabbriche di Careggine | Focus Junior It has been reported since that the energy company which owns the dam (ENEL) has said it’s considering draining it as a possibility to boost tourism in the area.