Greasy hair is a hair condition that is common in humans, one of four main types of hair conditioning— normal, greasy, dry and greasy dry. Oily hair can kill the entire effort a person invests in looking good on a special day. It is hard to style oily hair. Excess oil can also lead to skin problems. There are many ways to get rid of oily/greasy hair. These include changing how the hair is washed, the products used, and a number of natural remedies.  Following the under listed home remedies could help you control excess oil. A woman with healthy hair | porosity Aloe Vera 
Aloe Vera is known to be a magic wonder for many health and skin conditions so it comes as no surprise that it can work wonders when it comes to oily or greasy hair. Combining your mild shampoo, a spoonful of lemon juice and aloe vera can help you combat oily hair. A concoction, such as this should be used as many times a person shampoos his or her hair. Washing your hair with aloe vera for three weeks at a stretch can give you desired results. Aloe vera can also be used as a conditioner. A mixture of fresh aloe vera gel and apple cider vinegar, when applied on wet hair, conditions hair while removing greasiness. Lime Juice
Known to be a remedy to dandruff, lime or lemon juice can be used in the treatment of oily hair. Lemon contains citric acid that treats sticky hair and also fights bacterial infections. Ensure to wash your hair after the juice has been absorbed into your scalp. Tea
Asides just drinking tea for health benefits, did you know that rinsing your hair with tea leaves can condition hair ends like nothing else. Apply tea liquor when it is lukewarm; tea leaves act as an astringent in treating oily scalp. This is due to the presence of tannic acid in tea. Shampoo
Shampooing your hair three times a week can prevent oil accumulation in the pores of the scalp. Washing your hair regularly will rid you of dirt and sebum that can cause sticky and oily hair. Avoid rubbing or scratching your scalp
There are people who love moving their fingers through their hair. This is a bad habit as it leads to more oil secretion. Scratching your scalp from time to time or drying the scalp too vigorously can also act as a deterrent in controlling oil secretion.