 Olams has launched an awareness campaign on COVID-19 to slow the spread of the pandemic in Kano.  The campaign is to broaden knowledge on Coronavirus, highlight preventive measures and dispel the widespread ignorance among locals about the pandemic. Besides, it was another rare opportunity afforded the company to extend palliatives to over 2,500 vulnerable whose means of livelihood were badly affected by the lockdown. Zonal manager of the company in Kano, Adamu Bello who spoke during the flag-off of the palliatives, disclosed that the rationale behind the initiative was to complement efforts of the government to tackle the suffering brought about by the pandemic. Bello noted that the food distribution campaign is geared primarily at helping the vulnerable segment of the society, in addition to supporting the company’s workforce in upcountry locations. “The initiatives have been implemented by Olam, under its, Edible Nuts Preposition recognizes the tremendous efforts of the Nigerian government which inform our resolve to mount this awareness campaign to tackle the widespread ignorance on the spread of coronavirus, so that people can start taking preventive measures to control its spread. “The action plan which we are executing in the initiatives targets people residing mostly, in the rural communities in the northern States. The awareness campaign is directed at the most vulnerable segments of the society, while, at the same time we are extending support to our workforce in the upcountry locations,” Bello explained. The zonal manager, further disclosed that the company had developed radio jingles with World Health Organisation prescribed safety and precautionary measures which have been aired for a period of 15 days in Kano, Jigawa, Bauchi, and Katsina states. He added the food was distributed for 10 days, also at places, such as Dawanau Market, IDP Camps, Dorayi Karama, Dakata Sauna, Zangwan Mai Rikita, Daurawan Na Abba, Danladi Nasidi, Hotoro Konar Yashi, and Sheka Achi Lafiya. “We have also produced banners with informative precautionary messages which were strategically displayed at all the Company’s buying points in Kano, Katsina, Jigawa, Gombe and Bauchi,” Bello pointed out. “It is also a thing of joy to disclosed that our company, also in association with Big Bite is distributing 250 food baskets containing rice, beans, oil, spaghetti and tomato paste and facemasks in Jigawa, Bauchi, Gombe, Katsina, Kogi and Benue states. “Initially, when we started the food distribution programme, we thought that the project might not be popular with the people, but it was when we got into the interior parts of these states, that we understand the difficulty that most people are facing in terms of what to eat”, he stated. Speaking on behalf of Kano State government, Commissioner for Women Affairs, Dr. Zarau Umar, appreciated the company for initiating the awareness campaigns and the food distribution to the vulnerable and refugees in IDP camps. Zarau urged corporate entities, well-meaning individuals and organisations to emulate Olam’s gesture on the needy to reduce widening gap of poverty and affluent in the society.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .