As part of efforts to curtail and manage the spread of the global pandemic, COVID-19, a French leader in Aluminium Shipbuilding, company, Messrs OCEA has donated 30 ventilators to equip the military hospital earmarked for isolation and treatment of COVI-19 patients. The company noted that the ventilators will complement the efforts that have already been made by the government towards fighting the virus. Presenting the ventilators to the Chief of Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas at the Naval Headquarters Abuja, Country Representative of Messrs OCEA, Mr Yemi Aluko pointed out that in developed countries, Presidents and other top government functionaries are treated in military hospitals whenever they are ill. “When the former Chief of Staff to the President was flown to Lagos for treatment of COVID-19 in a private facility, i told the CNS the need to give priority attention to military hospitals as it is the practice in other climes. I thereafter pledged to donate 50 ventilators as part of the company’s Corporate Social responsibility and contribution to the fight against the global pandemic. “We had already donated 20 ventilators to the federal government which was received by Secretary to Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha. Today we are donating the remaining 30 to the Nigerian Navy. We have 10 at the warehouse of the Western Naval Command and 20 has been transported down to Abuja,” he said.
]ad]
While receiving the donation, the Chief of Naval Staff CNS, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, commended the company for their donation, saying that it will help in no small measures in combating the threats of COVID-19 pandemic. He noted that NN has observed all the Federal Government COVID-19 preventive protocol issued by the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control NCDC. Represented at the occasion by Chief of Policy and Plans Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Ifeola Mohammed, the CNS said the Service has set up a 40 bed-space Isolation and Treatment Centre in Lagos as part of its contribution to the fight against the pandemic. While pledging to do everything within its means to assists the federal government in combating the global pandemic, Admiral Ibas also promised to continue to partner with the company to fight the pandemic and protect the nation’s territorial integrity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .