Three persons were, on Monday night, killed in renewed cult clashes which left many others injured after they were attacked at a drinking bar in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. The suspected cult members, probably on a revenge mission, attacked the local drinking spot on the Customs Road. One of the victims, 50-year-old Mr Niceman Agonebi, popularly called Honorable, who is an in-law to the former deputy governor of the state, Peremobowei Ebibi, was killed during the encounter. The owner of the bar, simply identified as Madam Odey, had her jaw shattered by the stray bullets of the rampaging cultists, while two others received gunshot wounds. Eyewitnesses said the gunmen arrived in a commercial tricycle at about 8:00 p.m. and opened fire on their target who was in the midst of many others at the drinking spot. The cultists, who were armed with assault rifles, shot sporadically into the air and at anyone sighted on the street, leaving many residents and passers-by critically injured. The arrival of the policemen and some officials of the state vigilante service led to a chase of the gunmen. They, however, escaped through the Edepie/Tombia area of the state capital. Acting chairman of the State Vigilante Service, Doubiye Alagba, told newsmen that the government had gathered useful information on the activities of the rival cult groups involved in the killings and would ensure they are brought to book. Alagba, who paid a visit to the scene, condoled the families of the victims and reiterated his call on leaders of the cult groups to desist from the dastardly acts and embrace peace or face the consequences. It was learnt that the incident might be connected with the ongoing cult war between some members of Icelanders and the Bobos, known as De Bam. When contacted, the spokesperson of the state police command, Asinim Butswat, confirmed the incident and assured citizens that the perpetrators would soon be arrested and brought to book.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .