Students take protest to Ooni, police over incessant rape in Osun A 27-year-old man, Niyi Oluwafemi, has been remanded in police custody by an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court in Osun State for allegedly raping and assaulting a 17-year-old girl. According to the police prosecutor, ASP John Idoko, the victim, one Abiodun, has been hospitalised since May 17, that the incident happened. The accused was said to have had carnal knowledge of the girl at about 10:00a.m. at Oke-Yidi area, Odeomu in Gbongan town of the state. Idoko said the offence committed was contrary to and punishable under Section 358 and 350 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol. ll, Laws of Osun state, 2002. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the two count-charge of forceful carnal knowledge and assault leveled against him by the police The defence counsel, Tunbosun Oladipupo, urged the court to grant his client bail in most liberal term. But Idoko opposed the oral bail application of the defence counsel, claiming that the victim was in critical situation and still receiving treatment in the hospital. The Magistrate, Modupe Awodele, ordered that the defendant be remanded in police custody. Awodele transferred the case to Gbongan Magistrate’s court and adjourned till 8th of June for mention. Meanwhile, some undergraduates of Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, yesterday stormed the streets to protest against incessant rape cases across Nigeria. The students under the aegis of ‘Concerned Great Ife Students,’ during the peaceful demonstration, submitted petitions to the Area Commander of Moore Area Command in Ile-Ife, Osun State and the palace of Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi. According to the students, the recurrent rate of sexual violence in Nigeria is becoming alarming and more appalling that many cases of sexual violence are not properly investigated and prosecuted. Convener of the movement, Dunsin Olowolafe, during the protest said that the students believe strongly that previous cases of sexual violence that have been swept under the carpet due to influence of authorities is partly responsible for the spate in sexual violence. “As recently seen some days ago, a 100-level student of the University of Benin, Uwaila Jennifer, was violently raped in a church where she had gone to read while sustaining serious complications that later led to her death. We strongly believe that the reason why her rapist-killers could have been brazen in committing such a level of atrocity is because of their knowledge of the poor record of the Nigerian security agencies and authorities in responding to and unraveling atrocities of such degree. A typical recent example is that of Olabisi Olaleye, a lecturer in the department of International Relations, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, who was accused by students of sexual harassment. Till now, the only thing that has been heard is a claim of his suspension by the university authority with promise to intimate the public about the final verdict of the disciplinary panel,” he said. Reacting to the protest, Moore Area Commander, who received the students’ petition on behalf of Osun State Commissioner of Police, Undie Adie, acknowledged the receipt of the petition and advised students to be law-abiding. It would be recalled that the Osun State government last week arraigned a traditional ruler, his son and one other for allegedly involving in the defilement of a 13-year old girl. Oba David Ogungbemi, the Aketewi of Iketewi and his son, Idowu, were docked on a three-count charge. The Commissioner for Women, Children and Social Affairs, Olubukola Olaboopo, stated that the duo have been remanded at the State Correctional Center, Ilesha, pending the perfection of their bail conditions. The accused monarch has been suspended from acting or parading himself as the Aketewi of Iketewi pending the determination of the criminal charges against him. Olaboopo, while lamenting the spate of sexual assaults and crimes against children in the state disclosed that the state government is on top of the case and that the culprits will soon be brought to justice. She urged parents and guardians to put in place all mechanisms to ensure that their children do not fall victim of pedophiles, adding that it is time parents engage in sex education with their children. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .