Bandits have reportedly shot three persons dead at Maikwama village in Dandume Council of Katsina State. The bandits also stole food items and rustled a number of bulls used by farmers for tilling the farmlands. The Guardian gathered the incident occurred about 2 a.m. yesterday during heavy rainfall in the area. Several people were said to have sustained injuries during the attack, as the bandits shot sporadically and harassed many in their houses. The incident came less than 24 hours after bandits attacked a neighbouring Kurmin Chakara village where they abducted one Alhaji Kabiru, rustled domestic animals and carted away food items also. Like most states in the North West, Katsina is faced with challenges of insecurity. Last Friday, bandits killed seven people in Kasai and Nahuta villages of Batsari Council. Two traditional rulers were also killed in Danmusa and Matazu councils a few days ago, and police confirmed 20 persons killed in Fakari Council. MEANWHILE, the Kaduna State Government has allayed the fears of residents of Kaura Council, regarding the information that over 600 armed bandits were hiding on Zangang Hills. Few days ago, some groups in Kaura had alleged the presence of over 600 armed bandits on Zangang Hills, but the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, stated yesterday that there was nothing of such. Aruwan said the state government had reached out to Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and a detachment of the Special Forces of the Nigerian Army, and they carried out an extensive patrol on the said Zangang Hill on Sunday, June 21. He added that the fighting patrol stretched up to Kagoro Hills and other suspected hide-outs without encountering armed bandits. “Not a single bandits’ camp was found in the area and there is also no evidence of human activity on and around the hills as the reader will glean in the pictures attached to this press statement,” Aruwan reiterated. He urged aggrieved communities, individuals and groups in Kaura to always recourse to law and avoid jungle justice. “The Kaduna State Government commends the Commander of OPSH, Maj-Gen. Chukwuma Okonkwo, and his team in Sector 7 (Southern Kaduna) for a job well done. In another vein, the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai has summoned all Principal Staff Officers (PSOs), General Officers Commanding (GOCs) and Field Commanders (FCs) to Abuja where he charged them to fish out all criminal elements in the country, expose their sponsors/collaborators and destroy them. The meeting came against the backdrop of the submission by President Muhammadu Buhari last week that the performance of the service chiefs in tackling security threats in the country was not good enough. Briefing newsmen at the end of a six-hour meeting at army headquarters, Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa, said the COAS directed all commanders and troops to ensure that the charge given by the president was fully implemented, to speedily crush Boko Haram and the myriad security threats facing the nation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .