• Obiano orders vigilante to protect farmers from herdsmen’s attacks
Panic gripped most top government officials of Anambra State including officials of the State Response Team following National Centre for Diseases Control (NCDC) officers’ visit to take their samples. The exercise may not be unconnected with the death of an aide to Governor Willie Obiano, who was feared to have died from COVID-19 while in isolation at a protective centre. The aide was believed to have died last week in circumstances suspected to be COVID-19 related, prompting the arrival of NCDC officials to take their samples. Before the development, the state had recorded two deaths and 29 confirmed cases, with Governor Obiano hinting of a possible spike, as the virus moves towards community transmission. However, he state had concluded plans to acquire five machines capable of testing 2,350 persons daily. With five cycles in 24 hours, the machines could achieve 470 tests per day for each machine. Confirming the development, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala, pointed out that the machines would soon be activated at the Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu University Teaching Hospital (COOUTH) Awka. Okpala pointed out that it would pave way for expansion of the scope of testing for coronavirus once the PCR Laboratory at COOUTH was confirmed as a viable testing centre. He, however, cautioned against relaxing in the face of the recorded successes in the fight against coronavirus, adding that there was need for people to remain alert. Meanwhile, with the increasing influx of herdsmen and Almajirai to the South East region, the Anambra State Government directed the state vigilante group to act as foot soldiers as well as work as forest guards to protect its territory. Chairman, Anambra Vigilante Supervisory Committee and Senior Special Assistant to Governor Obiano on Vigilante Matters, Ikechukwu Ayo Aduba, issued the directive while interacting with newsmen in Onitsha. Aduba, who noted that the fear of herdsmen should not deter farmers from embarking on their farming activities, assured that every citizen of the state would be protected, adding that they should work in addition to carrying out their basic functions of surveillance and patrol of communities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .