 Aerial view showing a gravedigger standing at the Nossa Senhora Aparecida cemetery where COVID-19 victims are buried daily, in the neighbourhood of Taruma, in Manaus, Brazil, on June 2, 2020 during the novel coronavirus pandemic. – The pandemic has killed at least 375,555 people worldwide since it surfaced in China late last year, according to an AFP tally at 1100 GMT on Tuesday, based on official sources. Brazil is the fourth worst-hit country with 29,937 deaths so far. (Photo by Michael DANTAS / AFP)  Figures released by the health ministry showed a new record of 1,262 deaths in the previous 24 hours, as well as 28,936 new infections. The figures come as some Brazilian states began to emerge from weeks of economically-stifling quarantine measures despite warnings from the WHO and epidemiologists. The overall number of confirmed cases — 555,383 — makes Brazil the second most affected country after the United States. The official COVID-19 death toll of 31,199 released Tuesday is the fourth-highest in the world, after the US, Britain and Italy. Experts estimate the real number of infections could be up to 15 times higher than official figures, given relatively little testing across the vast country of 210 million. In a worrying sign, Sao Paulo state on Tuesday recorded its highest daily figures for both deaths and infections, on the day when cities across the state began reopening shopping malls and offices. Sao Paulo now has a total of nearly 120,000 cases with almost 8,000 deaths. In Sao Paulo itself, Mayor Bruno Covas has put back reopening non-essential businesses until after June 15. The other worst affected state, Rio de Janeiro, also began emerging from quarantine measures on Tuesday with beaches and businesses re-opening. “In the current situation, relaxing the measures is adding gasoline to the fire,” Rafael Galliez, an infections expert at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, told AFP. The regional office of the World Health Organization warned Brazil on Tuesday against reopening “too quickly as there is a risk of a resurgence of COVID-19.” The health ministry said there was “no way to specify when the peak of deaths will occur” due to the country’s size and geographic diversity. Brazil’s health crisis has merged with a political crisis, as far-right President Jair Bolsonaro has openly clashed with local authorities that insist on lockdown measures. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .