Despite the extension of the deadline for insurance industry recapitalisation to September 2021, brokers/marketers are sceptical about some operators’ ability to scale through the hurdles.
 
Recall that industry regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), had pushed the deadline from December 31st, 2020, to September 30, 2021, in a phased exercise. Under the new terms, insurance companies will have to meet at least 50 per cent of their paid-up share capital year-end, while completing the remaining stake by the end of the third quarter, next year.  He noted that the big underwriters have always taken the larger chunk of risks in the insurance industry, adding that, “Insurance companies that failed to satisfy the required minimum paid-up capital by the end of December 31st, 2020, maybe restricted on the scope of business they will transact.” The recent guidelines on phased recapitalisation introduced by NAICOM on June 3rd, have implications for the small-size insurance companies, which Apere suspect may lead to a selection process, whereby the insuring public and brokers might shun those with the lower capital base during the next business renewal cycle. He said: “This is because the insuring public would prefer to do business with insurers that have already met the Phase 1 of the segmented recapitalization requirement (50% of required minimum paid-up capital for insurers), or already fully recapitalized in the run-up to the business renewal period. The fear of an insurer being restricted to write a class of business in the near future would make the insuring public to be cautious in dealing with small size insurance companies.”
 
Noting that not all companies (particularly the small-sized) will be able to meet the December 31st, Phase 1 deadline, Apere stressed the need for NAICOM to introduce a mandatory default for mergers and acquisition, as Plan B, for such insurers, who may not already have such a plan in place by the year-end.
 
This is to forestall last minute disqualifications by September 30th, 2021, that would affect a smooth transition process.
 
“It should be the responsibility of the affected insurers to have the mergers/acquisition plan in place to secure the confidence and trust of the insuring public. The so-called restriction of the scope of business that such companies will transact, to be imposed by the regulator, may not be far-reaching enough to build the insuring public’s confidence not to select against them,” he emphasised.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .