The Nigerian Government on Friday announced that it will commence the enrollment of a new batch of N-Power beneficiaries. Spokesperson to the humanitarian affairs, disaster management and social development ministry Rhoda Iliya made the disclosure in a statement. “We have commenced the transitioning of beneficiaries from Batches A and B into government entrepreneurship schemes and engaging private sector bodies to absorb some of the beneficiaries after the completion of psychometric assessment to determine competency and placement into various opportunities,” Iliya said. “The Federal government is committed to the continuation and expansion and as such will now begin enrolment and onboarding of a new Batch of beneficiaries.” The N-Power Programme was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2016 under the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP) with the mandate of lifting citizens out of poverty through capacity building, investment, and direct support. The programme has enrolled 500,000 beneficiaries so far with 200,000 from Batch A which started in September 2016 and 300,000 from Batch B which kicked off in August 2018 across the key industries targeted by the programme – agriculture, health, education, and tax. Iliya disclosed that Batch A will exit June 30, 2020, while Batch B will exit the programme on July 31, 2020. On the mode of application for the new batch, Iliya said an “online portal would be open to receive applications from noon on June 26, 2020 and will provide a level playing field for all applicants.” She said the ministry will also make special considerations for Persons living with disabilities. Iliya said all applicants “must supply their Bank Verification Number (BVN) in their application to ensure a streamlined and transparent selection process. She explained that the ministry will publish a list of successful applicants after it had reviewed their applications. The ministry’s spokesperson stated that comprehensive details for the new batch will be announced in the coming weeks. Iliya, however, noted that past beneficiaries will not be eligible to participate in the application process.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .