Ghana’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration, Shirley Ayorkor Botchway PHOTO: Thomas Trutschel /Photothek via Getty Images The Ghanaian government on Thursday reiterated its commitment to restoring to its original state, the residential building of the Nigerian High Commission in Ghana that was demolished a few days ago following an attack. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that armed men had attacked the mission on Friday night and demolished the official residence of the High Commission of Nigeria, which was under construction. Mrs Shirley Ayokor Botchewey, Ghana’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration said this while briefing journalists in Ghana on the outcome of the investigation into the attack. She said, “The Land Commission will formally inform the Osu Traditional Council that in August 2000, the offer was made to High Commission of Nigeria, irrespective of the title of land in question. “The offer was accepted by the High Commission and payment was made accordingly that constituted a contract. “The Land Commission will proceed to issue a Land Certificate to the High Commission of Nigeria, to regularise its ownership of the property in question.
“Ghana will take immediate steps to engage the Osu stool and all stakeholders on the impasse. “Ghana will ensure that the demolished building is restored to its original state as soon as possible. “The High Commission of Nigeria will take appropriate steps to obtain a building permit for the construction.” She added that a committee consisting of officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ghana Police Service, National Security, and the Lands Commission had been constituted to investigate the unlawful demolition of the building. According to her, based on the preliminary investigation, Nigeria paid for the land 20 years ago, even though the High Commission could not produce the lease, land title certificate and building permit of the land. She, however, gave an assurance that the government of Ghana would actively engage the Nigeria government at the highest level, to address the impasse and help calm tensions in both countries. She said that arrests had been arrested in relation to the demolition and that the case had been prosecuted in court for conspiracy to crime and cause of unlawful damages. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .