 Pantami  During the virtual launch of the five-year framework in Abuja, the minister said the move had demonstrated the commission’s determination in accelerating the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020-2025 of the Federal Government. “I feel very excited for the fact that there is a serious improvement in the performance of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The launch of this SMP 2020-2024 is a clear indication of that. When a parastatal is performing, it will create an innovative idea on how to be more successful. When a parastatal is not performing, you will not hear anything on how to implement policies and come up with different strategies and plans,” he submitted. Pantami advised that the improved scorecard notwithstanding, there was need for the regulator to redouble its efforts. “We need to challenge and ridicule our previous successes by setting new records through the implementation of this SMP 2020-2024. The NCC management must ensure effective implementation of this SMP,” he added. Earlier, the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said the SMP was the fulcrum aiding the commission in driving its regulatory mandate in the fast-evolving telecommunications industry, in the next five years. He pointed out that the roadmap would define the future of the sector, taking into consideration the current and emerging trends as well as the numerous expectations of the diverse stakeholders. “The Federal Government’s economic diversification plans are focused on a robust digital economy, which will improve employment generation, as well as encourage innovation. This was prime in our minds during the formulation of the SMP.  We have invested great time and effort in ensuring that this document is pragmatic, and I am very confident and excited in its completeness to successfully guide the commission in achieving the set objectives. We are committed to the implementation of this SMP,” Danbatta pledged. In her marks, chairman of the Senate Committee on Communications, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, represented by Senator Obinna Agbo, observed that the document was the needed tonic to spur the commission to deliver creditably on the mandate for the enthronement of a digital economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .