The decade long Boko Haram insurgency has stalled the completion of 488 kilometres of Federal Government roads in Borno and Yobe States. The construction of five roads, were awarded to Haijag Construction Company (HICC), while the World Bank handles the 78-kilometre Maiduguri-Bama road. The roads are Dikwa-Gambouru, Bama-Banki, Maiduguri-Monguno and Ngamdu-Goniri-Damboa-Gwoza roads. The Borno State Commissioner of Works, Yerima Saleh disclosed this during a press conference  to mark Democracy Day in Maiduguri. He said that despite awards of the contracts, activities of insurgents in Sambisa Forests and Lake Chad region have prevented the completion of roads. On the 213-kilometre Maiduguri-Bama and Maiduguri-Monguno roads, he said: “No contractor would be willing to mobilize to project sites, because of insecurity to both lives and construction equipment and machines,” noting the contractors could have completed the roads linking neighbouring countries of Chad, Cameroon and Niger. “In 2019, the completion of 593-kilometre Maiduguri-Kano dualisation project was delayed for two years, because of terrorists’ activities in Borno and Yobe states. “Over a dozen heavy duty constructions machines and trucks were torched by insurgents in the Jakana/Mainok axis of Borno state,” he said. He said that Governor Babagana Zulum has accorded priority to infrastructure, transport and economic development sectors of economy. According to him, the abandoned Damboa-Chibok road would also be completed before the end of this year.   He explained that five
kilometre of road, has already been asphalted. While the Northeast first Flyover Bridge awarded to Eighteenth Engineering Company (EEC) at N4.3 billion has reached completion stages. He said the completion will ease traffic congestion and free flow of vehicles and trucks in Maiduguri and into neighbouring countries of Cameroon, Chad and Niger. Meanwhile, the state government has completed 65 housing projects for the ‘return and resettlement’ of 1.8 million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to 22 Local Government Areas. While announcing completion of 2,040 houses and 1,000 emergency shelters, the Commissioner of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RRR) noted that council secretariat complexes, lodges and high courts; including palaces of traditional rulers were also completed for return of monarchs and IDPs. While speaking on insecurity, Gubio said: “The rebuilding or completion of houses and public structures destroyed in Abadam, Guzamala, Kala-Balge and Marte councils; requires military clearance. He said the ongoing housing projects, are located at Damboa, Warabe, Koibe, Ajiri, Wulgo; Marte, Monguno and University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH). He added that the former Ministry of Land and Survey had be remodeled and become Borno State Geographical Information Services (BOGIS), adding that the remodeling of ministry adhering to the building plans of Maiduguri Metropolis and its environs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .