Designer OG Okonkwo in plaid | Photo: Pinterest Rainy days don’t just ruin your hair, they can ruin your outfits as well. From soaked clothes to squishy shoes, your perfect ensemble could be in havoc just because of a light shower from above. Rainy days don’t have to mean gloomy days for fashion lovers and enthusiasts as fashion never takes a raincheck.
We have some style tips if you are wondering what to wear on a rainy day. Keep your spirits high and your outfits dry this season. Rihanna wearing ankle boots | Photo: @BadGalRiri Boots Up!
Now is the time to let your love for boots come to the fore because you will be needing boots. Boots not only adds glam to your outfit but also ensures that your feet are protected. You can take your love for boots a step further by opting for thigh-high boots. Toke Makinwa in chilly sweater and sneakers | Photo: EELive Splash The Colours
Just because the skies are grey does not mean that you have to wear dull colours. Brighten up your day by adding a pop of colour to your outfits. For example, if you wear an all-black outfit because of how great black can absorb any muddy splash or sudden shower, it won’t be a bad idea to add a pop of colour like red, yellow or blue. If you don’t like bold colours, you can lighten things up with muted colours. Transparent Works Fine
Let’s face it, sometimes you put far too much effort into your outfit to cover it up just because it’s raining. This is the perfect moment for you to opt for a clear raincoat for everyone’s viewing pleasure. Playing with grey on a rainy day | Photo: Christian Vierig via Getty Images Chunky Heels Walk
If you want to wear a heel, opt for something low and chunky in case you have to make a mad dash to stay dry. Join The Pajama Trend
On rainy days, we would rather be staying cozy in bed. The pyjama trend lends itself perfectly to days when you would rather stay in bed. Style influencer Saufeeya Goodson in boots and beanie | Photo: Savoir Flair Grab A Rain Jacket/Coat
Don’t forget to grab a raincoat on your way out of the house. Raincoats help to keep you warm and also prevent your outfit from getting soaked by the rain. Thanks to fashion’s ever-evolving trends, you can get raincoats in different colours and designs. Beanies Are Handy
Wet hair is the last thing on anyone’s agenda especially if it is open. To protect without losing elegance, pop on a beanie and work it through the entire outfit. Rainy day style | Photo: Christian Vierig via Getty Images