• ‘Rohr free to assign any role to Yobo’
Nigeria will only continue with its bid to host the 2021 African Women Nations Cup if the economy improves, a top official of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has said. The NFF had last year indicated its interest in hosting the championship, which was earlier scheduled for this year, but was postponed to 2021 following the coronavirus outbreak. NFF’s Media Director, Ademola Olajire, told The Guardian yesterday that the economic meltdown caused by the global outbreak of COVID-19 has stalled so many activities, adding that the federation has been forced to reorder its priorities according to its finances. He said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has slowed things so much. We are watching things but we know the competition will be postponed at least till 2021. “The economic firmament is cloudy so we are watching things and should the situation improve, we would be able to pursue the hosting bid for the women championship.” He also reaffirmed that the “process is on for the appointment of Super Falcons head coach,” adding, “the consultants are working assiduously to realise the objective of getting a competent hand to handle the team.” Olajire, who expressed surprise over the furor generated by assignments given to Super Eagles’ assistant coaches by Head Coach, Gernot Rohr, said the German was at liberty to deploy members of his crew to the duties that would work for the team. Although he said the federation was not aware that Rohr had assigned one of his assistants, Joseph Yobo, to scouting duties in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), he added, however, that the head coach has the power to assign any role to the former Super Eagles captain. He advised football lovers to find ways of supporting the technical crew to succeed, instead of doing or saying things that would divide the team. Olajire said that the federation was focused on ensuring that the Eagles were well-prepared for the AFCON and World Cup qualifiers when sporting activities resumed across the world. “I don’t know about Yobo being appointed as scout of NPFL players. I am aware he is Super Eagles assistant coach. But of course the technical adviser of the Super Eagles, Rohr, can give him responsibilities as he deems fit. There should be no argument about that,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .