Last week in faraway America, George Floyd’s death in the hands of four white policemen sparked protests and riots across America that have shaken America to its foundations. Mr. President Donald Trump sought refuge inside the bunker in the White House! The reactions reminded everyone of the 1968 race riots in the aftermath of Martin Luther King’s assassination. Americans of all colours simply said: ‘enough is enough’ to deaths of unarmed black men in the hands of law enforcement officers! The ‘Black Lives Matter Movement’, which had been ridiculed by establishment America, came to haunt racist America with embarrassing force and vengeance. In the same week, in Nigeria, a 22-year-old undergraduate student of UNIBEN Miss Uwalia Omozuwa had gone to study in a church building owned by Redeemed Christian Church of God in Ikpoba Hill Edo State. Before the night ended, it was discovered that some scoundrels, sons, or a son of the devil had violated the sanctity of the church building, attacked, raped Uwadia and left her for dead. She was taken to a hospital but ultimately succumbed to her injuries. She was in a coma throughout her stay in the hospital and so could not narrate what transpired. Tears just kept flowing from her eyes. A social media campaign - JusticeforUwa- took off to draw attention to the dastardly act. But sadly, it did not carry the urgency or power of the forces brought together to fight George Floyd’s assassination. Somehow in Nigeria, such deaths have become routine. Life is cheap. Sad. Tragic. How did we descend into such a cesspit? The statue of former British prime minister Winston Churchill is seen defaced, with the words (Churchill) "was a racist" written on it's base in Parliament Square, central London after a demonstration outside the US Embassy, on June 7, 2020, organised to show solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement in the wake of the killing of George Floyd, an unarmed black man who died after a police officer knelt on his neck in Minneapolis. - Taking a knee, banging drums and ignoring social distancing measures, outraged protesters from Sydney to London on Saturday kicked off a weekend of global rallies against racism and police brutality. (Photo by ISABEL INFANTES / AFP)  Eghagha can be reached on 08023220393.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .