Dethroned emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, has filed notice of appeal challenging the Judgement of Federal high court on allegation of land racketeering running billions of naira. Justice Lewis Allagoa had on Monday dismissed the case filed by the emir on the enforcement of his fundamental right to fair hearing, a decision that eventually paves way for Kano Anti-corruption commission to investigate the former emir. Against the relieve of the plaintiff, Justice Allagoa affirmed the institutional powers vested on the anti-graft agency to invite the 14th emir of Kano to answer questions on the allegation charged against him. In a swift response to the Judgement, Sanusi filed notice of appeal and application for injunction, pending the hearing of the appeal. In a notice of appeal signed by Dikko and Mahmoud filed on 10th, June, 2020, reads, ” As counsel to His Highness, we were not informed of the date the judgment was to be delivered; nonetheless, we have obtained the Certified True Copy of the judgment on the 10th day of June, 2020 and have studied it. “We have the instruction of His Highness to appeal the decision and after studying the decison, we have on the 10th instant filed a Notice of Appeal challenging the decision of the Federal High Court delivered on the 8th June, 2020. “In addition to the notice of appeal, we have also filed an Application for Injunction pending the hearing of our client appeal. We are optimistic that the appeal has merits and the facts and the law before the Court of Appeal are in favour of our client, and same will be pursued to a logical conclusion by our client. The notice further indicated, “Based on the foregoing therefore, all further actions in respect of the subject matter of the appeal are automatically put on-hold and all parties should stay any action and not to take any precipitated step that will foist a fait accompli on the Court of Appeal”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .