Following the continuous surge in the number of COVID-19 patients in the country and across the globe, despite measures by the World Health Organisation and governments all over the world, the CEO of Church Organ Projects in Nigeria (CHOPiN), Lanre Delano has advised Nigerians to lift up their hearts in fervent prayers to God through hymns of healing and faith for divine intervention in their respective homes. Delano, gave the advice during an organ and solo music presentation on YouTube titled: A Coronavirus Hymn. He also, urged Nigerians not to relax in maintaining the hygiene protocols laid down by government and WHO. Speaking to The Guardian shortly after the presentation, Delano explained that organ music accompanying hymns is a great source of healing and reassurance during this period of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, “Nigerians should praise God like never before because no matter how dark the situation may be, there is light at the end of the tunnel. It is time the nation praised God for His intervention over this pandemic.” The CHOPiN chief executive disclosed that the special hymn rendered by Wanyinna and composed by Graham Dean (a member of the Hymn Society of Great Britain and Ireland), captures every moment the whole world is going through at this time. “While I sincerely appreciate the dogged efforts of the government and the medical personnel in fight against this pandemic, I am of the view that we should praise God, and ask Him to move in our land,” Delano stated. He explained that the essence of the music rendition was to move the hands of God for his divine intervention and to also minister life to the people who have already contracted the virus. “The Bible in 1Samuel 16:14-23 said, Divine music ministers healing to the sick and I believe in the God of heaven.” The sublime rendition by Wanyinna, who was 25 kilometres away from the CHOPiN Studios, led many who tuned in to YouTube channel to watch the performance drop messages of appreciation. While commending the rendition and the event generally, some viewers said it was spirit filled, and requested that the music should be disseminated to various the isolation centers and hospitals across the country, as it will aid the speedy recovery those who are sick. The angelic rendition accompanied with organ music from Delano and his co-organist, Biodun Falode of Chapel of Transfiguration, strengthened the viewers and prepared an atmosphere for God’s intervention. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .