Gov tasks security agencies on strict enforcement of protocols
Kano State Task Force on COVID-19 has declared that 70 per cent of the active cases in the state are asymptomatic and discharged after home management. Besides, the state yesterday adopted Home-Based Care Management Module (HBCM), a new platform designed to manage patients with mild and asymptomatic cases from the comfort of their homes. As at June 20, total confirmed cases in Kano stood at 1,184, active cases 422 and 712 discharged. Fifty patients has so far lost the battle to the deadly virus. Unveiling the new platform at the weekend, a member of the COVID-19 task force, Dr. Abdullahi Kauran-Mata, explained that the module was strategically programmed to reduce healthcare givers and patients’ contacts as well as ensure efficient management of scarce resources. Abdullahi said home care module became pertinent for densely populated cities like Kano, where residents battled with array of diseases and multiple health challenges. “With home care management, patients, especially those with mild and asymptomatic cases can remain at home and efficiently manage their cases. In Kano, for instance, about 70 per cent active cases recorded so far are either mild or asymptomatic, meaning that patients can manage themselves at home; all they need do is to adhere to all protocols in the module,” he said. Presenting the contents of the platform, another member of the task force, Dr. Sabitu Shannon, stressed that the module was not designed for patients with severe symptoms who had attained 60 years of age and above and suffering underlying health challenges like hypertension, diabetics and pneumonia. Meanwhile, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has directed security agencies to deploy strict enforcement on the use of face mask and social distancing in the state. Ganduje, who expressed dissatisfaction at the attitude of residents in the use of face masks and other health protocols, stressed the urgent need to reverse the trend. According to him, Kano is gradually winning the battle against COVID-19 with steady declining of active cases, applauding the task force for developing innovations to effectively contain spread of the virus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .