The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) has described the dislocations in Nigeria, Cameroon and eight other nations as world’s most neglected. In a statement yesterday in Maiduguri, its Secretary General, Jan Egeland, said Cameroun was the globe’s most forsaken emergency for the second year running. He spoke while expatiating on the new NRC report that was released yesterday. His words: “Africa is home to 10 of world’s crises, with African countries topping the list in last five years. “Cameroon, DR Congo and Burkina Faso are the most neglected displacement crises in the world.” According to him, the continent is home to nine of 10 of the earth’s mainly deserted catastrophes. Egeland added: “Cameroon was followed by DR Congo, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Venezuela, Mali, South Sudan, Nigeria, Central African Republic and Niger.” On the worst hit, the scribe submitted: “Four countries in Africa’s Sahel featured on the list, and we explain why the Sahel region of Africa was a mega-crisis in 2019.” He further noted: “Every year, NRC presents a list of displacement crises the world has neglected.” Egeland, therefore, in the document, attributed the predicaments to lack of political will, media attention and international aid. He pointed out that the COVID-19 pandemic would compound the hardship already faced by many of these countries, as “most of them have weak health systems and are unable to handle another emergency.” The NRC chief went on: “The deep crises represented by millions of displaced Africans are yet again the most under-funded, ignored and de-prioritised in the world. “They are plagued by diplomatic and political paralysis, weak aid operations and little media attention. “Despite facing a tornado of emergencies, their SOS calls for help fell on deaf ears.” He warned that the humanitarian problems in the affected nations would worsen through out this year, with the outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Acknowledging that the economic shocks of the scourge had begun telling on the global economy, Egeland appealed: “We need solidarity with these conflict-stricken communities now more than ever so that the virus does not add more unbearable disasters to the myriad of crises they already face.” The Norwegian outlined the three emergencies facing African nations, including “the exacerbation of Boko Haram attacks in the north, violent conflict in the English-speaking West, and a Central African refugee crisis.” He stated that Cameroun’s “ineffective conflict resolution, global news silence and a massive aid funding shortfall” contributed to the country’s topping this year’s inventory.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .