The Oyo State House of Assembly Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, yesterday said that there would be stricter punishment for rapists. Ogundoyin gave the assurance while addressing the coalition of various youth groups, which came to the state secretariat to protest against various cases of rape in the country. The Speaker, who stated that law on violence against women would be implemented to ensure stiffer penalties are given to rapists, said: “I will not support violence against anybody. We will come with stricter punishment for rapists.” The Chairperson, Nigerian Youth Congress, Adebobola Agbeja, said the upsurge in rape cases and violence in Oyo State was becoming worrisome, adding that the life of every girl-child is important; hence the need for government at all levels to provide adequate security for the safety of women. Earlier, the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), led by its President, Daniel Akpan, had protested against raping and killings of women in the country. They organised a peaceful rally round major markets and some other parts of Ibadan before converging on the Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. In another development, the Bishop of Ijesha North Anglican Diocesan Headquarters, Oke-Eruru, Ijebu-Ijesha, Osun State, Rt. Rev, Isaac Oluyamo, has charged the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 to declare national prayer and fasting against the pandemic. Oluyamo stated this after a meeting with other clergymen  to deliberate on how to adhere to guidelines put in place by Osun State government to curb the spread of the virus as ban was lifted on religious activities. commended the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 on the role played in rolling out modalities that would forestall the spread of the virus and for considering the opening of religious centres in the country. The bishop, therefore, implored the PTF to declare national prayer and fasting for divine healing of the country to put an end to the deadly virus. He said that opening religious gatherings should not just be for personal prayer but prayer for the country in all ramifications. Besides, he said that the economy of the country was greatly affected just like other countries and Nigerians should pray for the country.
According to him, the opening of religious gatherings is for us to call on God to end the pandemic and restore what we have lost. We should not give chances to the devil in any way but we must unanimously pray for an end to this coronavirus and also adhere to government’s guidelines to halt the spread of coronavirus. “I call on the presidential task force to declare national prayer and fasting for the country. We should call on God together for Him to restore us and bless us more abundantly. Opening of religious gatherings should be first for the growth of the country and not for personal interest.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .