 NDLEA PHOTO:Twitter  The State Commander of the agency, Ambrose Umoru, made this disclosure at a press briefing organised to mark the 2020 United Nations International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Drug Trafficking on Friday in Ilorin. He said within the period under review, operatives of the command in coordinated operations, arrested 380 suspects comprising 304 males and 76 females. Umoru explained that the command after a series of counselling sessions rehabilitated and reintegrated 138 persons with their respective families. He added that the command within the period recorded eight convictions while 18 cases were pending in court. Umoru said that while some of the female suspects were arrested in their provision stores used as a sales point, others were nabbed in their homes “which they have turned to hideouts for criminals and sale of illicit drugs. “It is shocking that more women are getting involved in the sale of Tramadol tablets and Codeine cough syrup among others in the state,” Umoru said. He said the command’s activities in the state in curtailing the demand for illicit drugs and psychotropic substances were done in active collaboration with the State Drug Control Committee. “Anti-drug abuse messages were taken to various communities and schools in the state. Various advocacy visits and sensitisation were carried out in the period under review. “We sincerely commend the state drug control committee while calling for the state government’s continued support for the campaign against drug abuse and illicit trafficking in the state. “Hopefully, with concerted efforts, the 13 per cent drug use prevalence in Kwara as reflected in the 2018 UNODC report will be reduced drastically,” Umoru said. The Kwara Commander of the NDLEA lauded the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari and described his efforts towards the drug challenge in the state as exemplary. He said the NDLEA would continue to carry out its duties in line with global best practices. Umoru explained that “this year’s commemoration once more affords us the opportunity to remind ourselves to always resist drug abuse and seek help from NDLEA when necessary”. According to him, the command is conducting intelligence-led operational activities to reverse the trend of the drug problem in addition to the various advocacy and enforcement programmes already put in place. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that June 26, every year is a day set aside by the United Nations to commemorate and highlight dangers of drug use and illegal trade in Illicit drugs. NAN reports that the weeklong programme has as its theme, “Better Knowledge for Better Care”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .