The Centre for Awareness on Justice and Accountability (CAJA), has expressed concern over Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, interference on the probe of the dethroned emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sunusi II by Kano Anti-Graft Agency. During a recent media chart, Governor Ganduje had reminded that Sanusi has case to answer with the state anti-corruption body on allegation of land scam. Citing the ruling of Justice Lewis Allagoa of Federal high court, Kano, which dismissed the relieves of Sanusi to halt investigation against, Ganduje reassured Sanusi’s probe will resume in earnest. But a statement issued by its Justice and Accountability Officer, Barrister Maryam Ahmad Abubakar, CAJA posited that Ganduje’s utterances has vindicated those who believed Sanusi’s probe is being orchestrated by Ganduje. Besides, CAJA opined that the government directive has equally proved the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission, was never acting independently in the dispense of her statutory responsible, but rather a mere toothless machinery of the government. According to CAJA, ” At a moment like this, we expect the governor to put genuine efforts in addressing the spread of the Covid-19, cushioning the effect of the current hardship to the vulnerable indigenes, and restoring the economic activities of the state that have been suffering even before the lockdown regime, not just nagging on an issue that continues to bring disunity not only among the people of the state, but even among some governors in the country. ” This action has become so provocative to the people because even the image of the state and northern elders has been subjected to abuse and attack by the governor. His unguarded utterances on the Kano elders since the beginning of this issue and his refusal to meet with the Northern Elders Forum, have no doubt, proved that the governor is more interested in witch-hunting the dethroned emir rather than amicable resolution of the issue.” ” For the commission, yes, we may agree and disagree with its modus operandi, but that is purely on principle. Consequently, we will not hesitate to offer advises on how to strengthen its work specially to build on its landmark achievements, including  the recent price stability and its doggedness in guaranteeing justice to the weaker ones in the society. ” But where the commission succumbs to external influence, to work on the Governor’s directives, such achievements can easily be washed away. We will conclude by calling on Governor Ganduje and all Nigerian governors, to always respect the independence of the government’s independent bodies by allowing them to work according to the Acts of such bodies and without any external interference from the governors or anybody acting on their behalf.” CAJA noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .