– Ex-ASUU President heads panel on new varsity The number of COVID-19 cases in Anambra State has increased from 12 to 29, a development that triggers fear of community transmission. Consequently, Governor Willie Obiano, in a statewide broadcast blamed doctors, who admit patients in private clinics without disclosing their health conditions, adding that their actions negated updates on cases of the virus. To enforce the COVID-19 law the state government recently signed into law, offenders would, as from today be fined N10, 000 for failure to wear face masks outside their homes. The state government also disclosed that it had taken steps to resolve problems in various communities involving clashes and destruction of property, as well as loss of lives. Similarly, Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, at the weekend signed bill to amend the Imo State of Nigeria Traditional Rulers, Autonomous Communities and Allied matters law No. 15 of 2016 (as amended), as well as Licencing and Control of Oil Mills into law. Following the action, the Community Government Council (CGC) introduced by the eighth House of Assembly during former Governor Rochas Okorocha’s administration stands repealed. Also, henceforth, the governor would appoint Chairman of the State Council of Traditional Rulers and Secretary after consultations with the State Executive Council (SEC) and stakeholders and no longer through election among the monarchs. The new law also stopped the monthly payment of N500, 000 and N250, 000 to ex-chairmen and their deputies, ending a system whereby monarchs were prone to spending their resources campaigning for the positions at the expense of good leadership, adding that monarchs should live within their autonomous communities. While commending the lawmakers, Uzodimma said the law would create an environment for growth and development of the state, stressed that the oil mills law would check vandalism and theft of oil palm trees and equipment owned Adapalm Oil Company in Ohaji/Egbema Council Area of the state. He pointed out that The Operation Flush security outfit has been recording successes and urged the monarchs to get acquainted with community policing. Speaker of the House of Assembly, Dr. Chiji Collins, said the laws were symbolic in the sense that more revenues would flow in, while excesses of cutting down palm fruits and trees, would be tackled. Meanwhile, Uzodimma appointed a former President of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Professor Ukachukwu Awuzie to head a committee on the establishment of the University of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences, Umuagwo. He recently signed the bill establishing the institution into law siting at the present Imo Polytechnic. Other members of the committee are professors Victor C. Kogah, Basil O. Nwosu, Vitalis C. Nwulu, K. B. Oyoh, Chiedozie C. Eze, Barrister T. I. Igwe (Secretary), Dr. Aloy Ojilere and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Uwandu Uzoma.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .