• How my mother shielded me from being molested at 10, Fayemi’s wife narrates A 15-year-old boy, identified simply as Osayomi, has been arrested by the police in Ekiti State for allegedly defiling a three-year-old girl. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Asuquo Amba, said the incident occurred at Iludi, Osi-Ekiti in Ido-Osi Local Government Area on May 30, 2020, at about 5:00p.m. Amba said the mother of the three-year-old victim returned home from hawking fish and discovered that her daughter was rough and stressed. “After a close examination, she noticed that there were some fluids on the pants of her daughter, raising suspicion that she might have been defiled. Further investigation and medical examination showed that there was penetration.” The CP added that the suspect was arrested by the police following the report of the matter and that he had confessed to the crime. Amba also said one Peter Moses was arrested for allegedly defiling a four-year-old girl in Ado Ekiti on June 2. Meanwhile, Bisi Fayemi, wife of Ekiti governor, has narrated how her mother protected her from sexual molestation when she was 10. In a live Instagram chat with Dolapo Badmus, a trained domestic and sexual violence responder, on Sunday, the governor’s wife stressed the need for parents to pay attention to issues affecting their children. “Last year, when the Busola Dakolo issue happened, I stressed the importance of us listening to stories of rape survivors and I shared my own experience when I was a young girl. I was around 10 at the time, my mother brought one of his relatives from her hometown to help the house. Because we were kids, we usually sleep in the same room then. I was on the bed with one of my aunties, my brother was on another bed and this young man was sleeping somewhere near our bed. “In the middle of the night, he started pulling my bed sheet. Initially, I thought it was a mistake. So, he would pull the bed sheet and I would pull them back. He did it again and I pulled them back. So, the third time, I decided to wait and see if he was doing it on purpose. Lo and behold, he pulled the sheet totally off me. At that point, I asked him ‘what are you doing?’ and he replied ‘kosi’ (which in English means nothing). “The following morning, as early as 6:00a.m. I went up to my mother and narrated what happened to me. When I came back from school that afternoon, he was already gone. That was my mother’s relative. What if I had told my mother and she had said ‘shut up, how dare you?’ What could have happened to me. It meant that her relative could have proceeded to do something else with me. So, we need to listen to our children.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .