Crisis in the National Assembly over the head of its bureaucracy witnessed a new dimension yesterday as lawmakers have begun considering replacement for the Clerk, Mohammed Ataba Sani-Omolori. A committee set up by the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC), charged with the responsibility of appointing persons at the National Assembly, had submitted its report. Among the recommendation was the immediate reversal of the tenure elongation carried out by the Sani-Omolori-led National Assembly.But The Guardian learnt that ahead of NASC’s decision, leadership of the National Assembly, which wields influence over the NASC, has begun consideration of some persons as beneficiaries of the appointments. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan and Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila are disposed to having the positions filled by persons from the North East and South West. It was also learnt that the Permanent Secretary, Legal Matters in the National Assembly, Bala Mohammed Yabani (Yobe State) has been tipped as the next Clerk to the National Assembly. Similarly, Permanent Secretary, Estate and Works/Procurement, Olatunde Ojo Amos (Osun State) and Director in the National Assembly, who was a former liaison officer in Lagos, Adebanjo Ademola have been tipped for Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly (DCNA). Sani-Omolori has allegedly usurped the powers of the NASC to extend the tenure of some senior staff members, an exercise, which he had also benefitted from. In that, the retirement age for civil servants in the National Assembly was between 35 to 40 years, but it was increased from 60 to 65 years.Details of the document showed that Sani-Omolori and about 150 officers were expected to remain in office for another five years, despite attaining the legal retirement age. It was further learnt that the newly-inaugurated NASC board upon resumption, set up a Committee to review implementation of the Harmonised Retirement Age of its employees and that the committee has submitted its report and has deleted the five-year tenure elongation of Sani-Omolori and over 150 other senior staff members. If the committee’s recommendations are implemented, Sani-Omolori who had served for 35 years in February might retire from service.Chairmen of National Assembly and Commission chapters of Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), Sunday Sabiyi and Ojemeri Oisamaye, in a letter addressed to the chairman of National Assembly Service Commission (NASC), Ahmed Amshi, said NASC should cancel Sani-Omolori’s tenure extension. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .