On Thursday, June 24, 2020, the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) titans pushed overboard its captain to avert imminent catastrophe reminiscent of its forebear. In a way, as a political party, APC was like the famous Titanic ship: assembled like no other.
 
Some reflections on the party platform would help explain what happened to the docked captain: at its creation, APC was intended as a special purpose vessel to capture political power. And in the flurry of activities and frenzy to achieve that purpose, no thought was spared for what becomes of the vessel when it reaches the quay.  
 
So, because the political grouping was programmed for a power grab, politics of who gets what has continued to define its modus operandi. That could explain why in 2018, two years after he served out his two constitutional terms as Edo State governor, Comrade Adams Aliu Eric Oshiomhole, was conscripted to replace his kinsman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, as captain of the cruise ship.  In an interface with State House
OSHIOMHOLE, in an apparent allusion to the Minister of Labour and Employment’s failure to inaugurate the board of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), warned that he would discipline ministers that fail to live up to their responsibilities. 
 
“If the minister refuses we will suspend him from the party. You know we must return to internal discipline. For me it is the height of mischief for any minister; you cannot purport to be an honourable minister and you act dishonourably and nobody is greater than the party. “And if the president condones disrespect for his office, I will not condone disrespect for the party. And when we expel the minister we will prevail on the president that he can’t keep in his cabinet people who have neither respect for his own decisions nor have respect for the party without which they would not have been ministers.” Uncertain future
IF Oshiomhole dreamt high dreams of even becoming president, the manner of his fall leaves him not only with emotional trauma but also opens up for an uncertain future. As a former governor and labour leader, the governing party might reward him with either a ministerial appointment in the anticipated cabinet reshuffle or send him on political exile as an ambassador.
 
But, in the interim, as he regards life as an outsider to power, the sound of his strong words against his traducers would continue to echo in his mind. Here are some samples: 
* Whatever you do, those who want to fight you will fight you. But I know that my tenure will be defined by God, not by man. And I worry more about what I will be remembered for when I was chairman rather than how long I was chairman.” * I can’t say more than that. Those who are parading themselves, holding meetings at night, my prayer to my God is that let them meet at night, what they do at night will be destroyed in the day time. I don’t go for night business; I do daily business. They know themselves, they know me and I know them. * Those fighting me just feel that if they cannot give me orders, then they must do everything to embarrass my person, but I believe that he who God stands with no man born of a woman can bring down. * People want strong leadership, the averaged Nigerian want to have a strong leader for Nigeria. They want to have strong leaders in various institutions; they want institutions that are strong enough that cannot be controlled by individuals. * Unfortunately, very few sections of our elite want to weaken institutions so that they can control and if you refuse to oblige them the misuse of your institution, then they go for your jugular; that is the only thing. * Those behind this plot, the hands you saw which include as you saw yesterday, the Edo State governor and his people jubilating, but that is the irony of life; that you will help give birth to a child and the child will look for cutlass to want to chop off your neck. It has happened in history; it has happened in this country. So, I won’t be the only person. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .