If Okakuro Group’s plan works out as envisaged, Nigerian coaches will soon get the opportunity to acquire more knowledge in their fields through local and international training programmes. The coaches would also get the opportunity to access modern facilities and equipment to enhance their trade. Speaking during a stakeholders’ roundtable in Lagos at the weekend, Okakuro Group International’s representative in Nigeria, Ms. Idemabasi Mkpokporo, said the sportswear manufacturing outfit is inclined to partner, support and help develop the sports sector in Nigeria to grow to international standard. She stressed the need for organisations and governmental bodies responsible for sports development and policy formulation to look beyond what the athletes would bring to the table and focus more on the interest and overall well being of the individual involved. Ms. Mkpokporo said her organization wants to develop coaches, who would in turn earn the respect and trust of administrators to handle the national teams. This, she said, would be accomplished through a programme that would make it easier and faster for Nigeria coaches to be trained and retrained in the best reputable sports education bodies overseas. “One of our primary objectives is to see that the athletes have self knowledge, are well treated and educated on the things they need to know from as simple as diet, physical therapy, psychological, mental health, emotional training and self-evaluation. We believe that with the right attitude and consistent effort, they can be who they want to be to the joy of us all,” Ms. Mkpokporo said She added that their target is the youths, who would be given the right education, experience, exposure and knowledge they need to live well in and out of sports. “Trophy winning, fame and wealth is not all that there is to life. The right mental, physical and emotional attitude are some the major capitals. These we must teach the young people. “We must also teach them that education is not all about academics. Self-knowledge and experience is important too,” she emphasised. While calling for policies that would make it mandatory for big corporations across the country to contribute annually to sports education and development, she argued that things would be better if government involved individuals and private organisations in repositioning the industry to make it attractive and viable, as it is done in many parts of the world. Also speaking at the forum, Britain-based career management expert, Dr. Peter Ogudoro, said time has come for people and organisations to think of holistic career development for the sustenance of the their ideals and vision.  “We have observed that the people here, in all spheres of human endeavor, do not pay attention to career development and management that involves holistic approach, as obtained in other places. Sport is the worst hit. “So our motivation to partner and work with Okakuro Group is a well-calculated and taken step, and the direction is a perfect one. Together we are bound to achieve enormous results,” Ogudoro explained. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .