 Burna Boy  Ahead of this year’s BET Award, organisers have released list of nominees with Canadian rapper Drake leading the pack with six nominations. This year’s nominees reflect an abundance of creative expression and black excellence across music, television, film, sports, and philanthropy. The awards will simulcast Live at 01:00 WAT on June 29, making its international broadcast premiere on BET Africa (DStv Channel 129) with a repeat broadcast at 18:00 WAT on the same day. Representing Nigeria on the nominees’ list this year are superstars Burna Boy and Rema, who were nominated for the Best International Act and Viewers’ Choice Best New International Act respectively. Other African nominees include South African superstar Sho Madjozi and Congolese singer-songwriter Innoss’B in the Best International Act category, and Zimbabwean songstress Sha Sha who is nominated in the Viewers Choice Best New International Act category. Rema  Drake returns to the top spot securing six nods, including Best Male Hip Hop Artist, Video of the Year, and two nods for both Best Collaboration and Viewer’s Choice’ for his features alongside Chris Brown (No Guidance) and Future (Life Is Good). Newcomers Megan Thee Stallion and Roddy Ricch garnered the second most nods with five nominations each. Megan Thee Stallion’s nominations include Best Female Hip Hop, Best Collaboration, Video of the Year, Album of the Year, and Viewer’s Choice Award. Roddy Ricch’s nods include Best Male Hip Hop, Video of the Year, Best New Artist, Album of the Year, and Viewer’s Choice Award. Beyoncé, Nicki Minaj, Chris Brown, Lizzo, and DaBaby are third place with four nominations each. Now in its twentieth year, the BET Awards continues its reign as the ultimate platform to showcase the best and most beautiful aspects of the Black experience – celebrating Black music’s present and future, and elevating the culture and being a driving force for social change. The award recognises artists, entertainers, and athletes across 21 categories with The BET Awards 2020 nominations. The nominations are selected by BET’s Voting Academy, which is composed of fans and an esteemed group of entertainment professionals in the fields of television, film, music, social media, digital marketing, sports journalism, public relations, and creative arts.