Former Super Eagles’ Assistant Coach, Joe Erico, believes Nigeria has all it takes to become champions at the 2021 African Nations Cup in Cameroun, as well as go beyond the second round stage at the Qatar 2022 World Cup. Speaking on Coach Gernot Rohr’s new deal at the weekend, Erico said the target the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) set for the German, including to win the Cameroun 2021 Africa Nations Cup, is attainable if the team worked hard for it. He said Rohr now has the best opportunity to assemble a formidable squad that will not only win the Nations cup, but also excel at the Qatar 2022 World Cup, adding, however, that the only way these targets would be possible is by assembling the best Nigerian players for matches without sentiments and interference from any quarter. He argued that Rohr has enough pool of talents to build one of the best teams in the world, adding, “I am delighted that he has renewed his contract because it gives him the chance to build on the foundation he has already laid for the team.” Erico added: “I believe Rohr must have really reflected on his past performance with the Super Eagles before accepting the target given to him by the NFF to win next year’s AFCON and also do well at the Qatar 2022 World Cup. “Rohr is in a better place to excel to any level with Super Eagles at this moment based on the abundant young talents within and outside the country aspiring to play for the Eagles.” On the argument that Rohr has not built a good team despite inviting and dropping many players since he became national team coach, Erico said a good coach would always keep changing players until he gets the right mix for his dream team. He added: “When Rohr was dropping and selecting players in different games to get the best for the Super Eagles, some people said he did not have a team yet. This is not right because Rohr is close to the team and if dropping and picking new players for particular positions works for him, there is no need to attack him. “The NFF and football loving Nigerians should give Rohr the best support to succeed. He, in turn, should be focused to redeem Nigeria’s image in world football.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .