NCDMB moves to resolve NLNG’s N970m dispute with Macobarb
The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) yesterday unveiled a technology application to facilitate tracing contacts of people infected with COVID-19. This followed NNPC’s Transparency, Accountability and Performance Excellence (TAPE) agenda and commitment to continuously deploy Information and Communications Technology (ICT) for operational efficiency and accountability in its system While unveiling the software in Abuja, Group General Manager, Information Technology Division (ITD), Danladi Inuwa, noted that the development was part of NNPC’s contribution to curb the spread of the pandemic in its formations and government’s Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). He disclosed this in a statement issued by NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Dr. Kennie Obateru. “The contacts tracing solution is ready for deployment and all the technical testing had been done and the solution ready to go live. NNPC’s locations would be covered by the novel application, which would reveal all information about persons visiting any official. “And should there be any medical challenges, the NNPC Medical Team would be able to track all contacts from the information at the database and advise properly,” the statement added. He explained that members of staff would use the new application to document their private visitors in their homes, stressing that it would enable the workforce to adjust adequately to the ‘new normal’ way of living to minimise the spread of coronavirus. Inuwa also disclosed the corporation had deployed online methods in the procurement of petroleum products to minimise human contacts in business transactions at the Petroleum Products Marketing Company (PPMC) in the face of COVID-19. He said the application, known as the Customer Express, would also enable marketers to register, validate and revalidate their Bulk Purchase Agreements online within a week, adding that the portal provides a dashboard that enables the corporation to track all products being imported, transported and sold at all times. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has moved to resolve the dispute between the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) and Macobarb International in N970m claim and payment disagreement. The lingering dispute had caused untold hardship to many workers and sub-contractors due non-payment of salaries and jobs executed and even bank loans, a situation that had worsened their economic woes since the coronavirus pandemic. Macobarb demanded that NLNG pays N970m for wrongful termination of a contract and value for downtime and equipment on site for about two years, as
NNPC, Shell, Office of Attorney-General of the Federation, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) made several attempts to wade into the dispute to no avail. However, Macobarb expressed confidence that NCDMB’s move to resolve the matter and ensure out-of-court settlement would enable other companies to heave a sigh of relief, noting that sometimes, when such matters go to court, they are usually quashed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .