Man checking his face | Healthline The face is one of the body’s most expressive parts as a lot can be told about a person from their countenance.
A visit to the doctor is also proof that the face is very important as doctors partly rely on your face to arrive at a diagnosis. Certain symptoms might manifest on your face which may give your doctor vital clues about underlying health conditions. Keep reading to find out some signs of disease that could be written on your face according to Standard Media: Facial asymmetry
When your face gets twisted out of shape, this could be one of the first signs of a stroke. Facial asymmetry could also be a symptom of Bell’s Palsy, a condition which causes temporary weakness or paralysis of the facial muscles. What causes Bell’s Palsy is still unclear. Excess facial hair
Excess facial hair in women especially along the jawline, chin and upper lip could mean that they have polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). This is a hormone imbalance in which the male hormone levels are elevated. If as a woman, you have facial hair, there is no need to immediately assume that you have PCOS as facial hair growth in women could also be caused by insulin resistance. Excess insulin in the body can stimulate the ovaries to produce androgens (male hormones). women with high cholesterol levels and those experiencing menopause could also experience this. Dry lips
In dry and windy weather, it is not uncommon to have dry lips because the weather sucks the moisture out of your lips. However, if you constantly have dry lips despite being well-hydrated and keeping them moisturised, there might be a more serious underlying issue. A doctor and the author of “What The Yuck?” Dr Roshini Raj, MD says flaky lips could be a symptom of a problem that affects sweat gland function, such as hypothyroidism or diabetes. Furthermore, dry lips could also be a symptom of deficiency of certain B vitamins, folic acid deficiency, eczema, psoriasis, dermatitis or a drug reaction. Rashes on your skin
Itchy clusters of rashes could be a symptom of celiac disease, an autoimmune disorder where the body overreacts to gluten. However, celiac disease is very rare as it affects only 1 per cent of the population. A butterfly-shaped rash across your cheekbones and across the bridge of your nose, this could also indicate lupus. Other health problems which could cause rashes to include allergies, eczema, rosacea, and certain infections. Puffy eyes and eye bags
Having puffy eyes and eye bags could be as a result of stress level or not getting enough sleep. However, At times puffy eyes can be associated with seasonal allergies or even a thyroid problem. Some patients with hyperthyroidism can get fat around their eyes, which causes puffiness. Puffy eyelids could also be a sign of lupus, dermatomyositis, and other connective tissue diseases. Discoloured complexion
A 2009 study by researchers from U.K universities of Bristol and St Andrews, which was published in the Journal of Primatology found that a person’s skin colour affects how healthy, and therefore attractive they appear. For instance, a change in skin complexion can give doctors a clue as to what is wrong. A pale face could mean that you have anaemia or if your skin takes on a yellow tone, you might be suffering from liver disease. New moles
A new or changed mole could be a sign of something as scary as cancer. To be sure, get it checked by a dermatologist. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.