The suspect ‘Killer-cop’ fired 30 bullets at us, says eyewitness
A policeman who went berserk yesterday and shot his colleague dead has been arrested by the Lagos State police command. The suspect, Inspector Monday Gabriel from No. 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron Abuja, on special duty in a Federal Government facility in Ikoyi, Lagos, went berserk and started shooting sporadically. He shot one Sergeant Felix Okago dead. Okago, who was on Special duty with the Inspector, died from the gunshot injuries while others escaped unhurt. It was gathered that the police officer, in a bid to escape, was shooting sporadically on Third Mainland Bridge and was later arrested by policemen from Bariga Division along Akoka, disarmed and handcuffed. One of the occupants of the building where the shooting took place told newsmen: “When the shoot began in the early hours of the day, we were so afraid and were praying in the house but the gunshots kept ringing everywhere. He kept shouting ‘who is in the house, who dey here’. Nobody answered him. He kept firing at the door and a few of the bullets penetrated through the door into the building. It was God that save us.” Reacting, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, in a statement yesterday said on Sunday at about 4:30a.m. Area ‘A’ Command received a distress call that one Inspector Monday Gabriel from No 21 Police Mobile Force Squadron Abuja, on special duty in a Federal Government facility in Ikoyi Lagos, went berserk and started shooting sporadically. “One Sergeant Felix Okago who was on special duty with the Inspector, died from the gunshot injuries while others escaped unhurt. In an attempt to escape, he took a patrol van and headed towards Third Mainland Bridge, shooting as he was escaping. “He was intercepted by policemen from Bariga Division along Akoka, disarmed and handcuffed. The rifle and vehicle were recovered. The body of the deceased Sergeant is deposited in the mortuary for autopsy while the Inspector is taken to Police Hospital for medical examination as he presented signs of mental depression,” Elkana said. Elkana said the Commissioner of Police had directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of investigation to take over the investigation. He added that the command deeply condoled with the family of the fallen colleague who paid the supreme price in service to his fatherland. This is coming barely days after the state police command arrested the police officer who allegedly shot a 16-year-old girl, Tina, dead at Iyana-Oworo bus stop on Wednesday, May 27. According to reports, the trigger-happy policeman was trying to arrest a bus driver for violating the curfew rules. In the process, he allegedly shot the bus conductor dead as well as young Tina, who was nearby. Following the outcry on social media, an investigation was launched.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .