Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume; has said that a Federal Polytechnics and College of Education; are to be established by government in Borno
state. According to him, the new institutions of higher learning are to be sited at Marama and Gwoza townships in Borno south senatorial
district. Ndume, who represents the senatorial district on the platform of All Progressive Congress (APC) at National Assembly; disclosed this Sunday at Government Reservation Areas (GRA) residence, Maiduguri. He said that he had already sponsored Bills for the establishment of Federal Polytechnics, Marama and the Federal College of Education,
Gwoza, a border community with Cameroon.
While speaking on the passage of the two bills,  he said: “I very much hope that; the presented bills on establishment of institutions of higher learning will receive favourable consideration from my colleagues in the hallow red Chamber. “Besides the passage of bills, I ensure those roads projects that have direct bearings on people’s lives are constructed to link various
communities in southern Borno.” According to him, the reconstructions of Biu/Gombe, Biu/Damaturu, Biu/Numan/Yola and Biu/Damboa/Maiduguri roads project have been
captured in 2020 budget. He added that the completion of the Biu Dam project; have also been captured in this year’s budget. He explained that having received some assurance from the Armed forces that adequate security shall be provided for workers at construction sites of the roads, work shall be facilitated to ensure its speedy
completion. While speaking on projects’ legal backing, Ndume said: “I also equally sponsored the Nigerian Army University Biu Established Bill which has since passed through second reading.” adding that; this is to give the varsity an intuitional legal backing. “I’ve presented and sponsored 11 Bills and they are all awaiting action at the Upper Chamber of the National Assembly,” said Ndume. According to him; the Social Investment Programme Agency (SIPA) bill will ensure that all money spent on Trader Money, N-Power and other Social welfare henceforth shall henceforth be appropriated in the
Budget. He noted that the bill should be provide and closely monitored to ensure accountability. On his experience as Chairman Senate Committee on Army, he said: “My chairmanship has afforded me the opportunity to learn more of the workings of the Army and the difficulties we face. Chairman Committee on Army also said that he is not happy with the way things are going because; not a dime has been released to Army for capital projects this year. “General Tukur Buratai’s relocation to theatre of war in Northeast; has made a remarkable difference in the fight against Boko Haram insurgency war. “He has provided the required motivation and leadership to troops fighting the decade long war that claimed many lives and property.” he
said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .