The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) caretaker committee in Ekiti State has disagreed with the former governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, on the return of former Governor Segun Oni to the party. Fayose had last week said that there would not be red carpet reception for Oni in the PDP. The former governor, who said that the governorship ticket of the PDP would not be served on Oni a la carte, however, denied saying that Oni was not welcomed in PDP as reported in the social media. Speaking through his media aide, Lere Olayinka, Fayose noted that the membership of a political party was optional. However, the committee has described the return of Oni as a big boost to the party and a celebrated achievement to the members of the caretaker body. It stated this yesterday at a press briefing in Ado-Ekiti. Chairman of the committee, Senator Hosea Agboola and the Secretary, Diran Odeyemi, who spoke at the conference, dispelled the insinuation that the caretaker committee was favouring one of the groups in the party, particular a faction loyal to Fayose. Agboola said that every member of the party is recognised in the PDP and that those who have the intention of rejoining the party were free to do so without encumbrances. “The fact that former Governor Segun Oni has just rejoined the PDP is the greatest achievement of this committee. “We are going to reach out to former Minister of Works, Dayo Adeyeye and others who left before the July 14, 2018 governorship election and bring them back to the party. “We will never be partial because our mandate and terms of reference is to bring all factions within the party together. We are to bring those who are aggrieved together to be one family so that we can return to how we were in 2002 when former Governor Fayose contested and won election in Ekiti State. We are here to bring the family together and make everybody be on the same page,” he said. On the steps taken so far in mending fences between Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi, Agboola said the trouble-shooting mission was yielding good results, adding: “We are reaching out to those who instituted the court action on how to bring them together and resolve the issue.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .