 Wale Adediran  Noting that a country’s growth and strength is dependent on and impacted by the quality and capabilities of its workers, CIPM stressed the need to drive regulatory effectiveness, and also strengthen professionalism in the public sector. Already, the Institute through accreditation of its ad-hoc committee had organised a capacity building workshop for heads of service in partnership with Office of the Head of Civil Service of the Federation (OHCSF). President of CIPM, Wale Adediran, at the CIPM’s 51st yearly general meeting, held virtually, revealed how the Institute’s objectives in the area of sector-wide capacity development was further strengthened in Lagos, Ekiti and Ogun states, where about 200 civil servants from Ogun became members. Notwithstanding some of its positive strides, Adediran reiterated CIPM’s commitment to continuous improvement and being the foremost organisation development and people management institute in Africa, as well as respected across the world. He also disclosed of plans to expanding its frontiers across Nigeria and Africa, by working on technology and digital transformation project, and has commenced partnerships with some of the best Nigerian, African and international organisations. He said: “We will continue to pay the utmost attention to delivering the prime stakeholder experience on our journey towards being the best. “During the year under review, to enhance service quality and effectiveness, we worked on improving the internal effectiveness of our processes by creating standard operating procedures (SOPs) across all functional areas.” During the period, Adediran said the Institute witnessed a 41 per cent growth in the number of inductees, as a total of 1,802 new members were inducted compared to 1,279 in 2018. He added that an 18.5 per cent increase was recorded, as about 6,467 candidates enrolled for professional examination compared to 5,458 candidates in 2018. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .