Peter Grundy and his daughter Katrina Peter Grundy, a retired wheat farmer from the Australian state of Victoria is at his wits end in trying to find a way to evict his 49-year-old daughter Katrina from his apartment. The  84-year-old who is not entitled to a pension has been trying to get Katrina evicted from his apartment so that he can sell the apartment and move into a retirement home. Since he isn’t eligible for pension, he is trying to secure his place in a retirement home but he needs to pay up front. To do this, he has to sell the apartment but his efforts in the last eight years have proved futile despite spending a small fortune on legal fees. Katrina has reportedly been ambushing his plans to sell his apartment and despite taking her to court, she has refused to leave and legal experts say the pensioner has exhausted all legal options. “The state of Victoria has no other mechanism available to him [Peter] to get her out – he’s followed through on everything he can do, yet she remains, and it seems every day she remains it’s another day of injustice for him,” property lawyer James Lawrence told 9News’ A Current Affair. Katrina claims her parents gifted her the Melbourne apartment eight years ago, a claim that the judge has already dismissed. However, this hasn’t stopped her from allegedly squatting there against her father’s wishes. To prevent a sale of the house, she even placed a caveat on the property, which has proven a very clever and efficient way of delaying and eventually canceling any potential transactions. “Very clever and very clever in legal terms – and solicitors and the barrister said – she is someone I’ve never met the like of – she has an enormous capability to come up with things we never hear of,” Peter Grundy said. The frustrated Grundy revealed to reporters that he has so far spent around AU$ 70,000 trying to evict his daughter, not to mention the AU$ 200,000 in estimated rent losses he incurred over the last eight years. Since the apartment is technically his property, he has had to pay all the body corporate fees and taxes as well. Katrina claims to have chipped in as well, but failed to provide any proof of that. “I’m sure it has taken the bit of youth I had left in me,” Peter Grundy said about his longstanding legal battle with his daughter.