 Governor Babagana Umara Zulum PHOTO:Twitter  The allocated houses at Bama has remained to be occupied for over a year. Bama had severally been attacked and destruction of over 90 of houses and public buildings by Boko Haram terrorists, before troops re-captured it in 2016. While revoking the allocations Monday at Bama, Zulum disclosed: “Since it was obvious that; those allocated the houses do not need them, internally displaced persons (IDPs), many of whom live in government camps be given. “I’m ordering the IDPs to immediately occupy the revoked allocation of houses at INHE.” The Governor gave the re-allocation order at the Shehu of Bama’s palace on Monday, where he spent the entire day looking out for the welfare of IDPs. He also led other government officials in the distribution of food and non-food items to those in critical humanitarian needs. According to him, the housing estate comprises 100 units of two-bedroom houses built by Alhaji Muhammadu Indimi, as part of his support in resettling 1.76 million IDPs in the state. While lamenting the non-occupation of allocated houses at Shehu’s palace, Zulum said: “We cannot tolerate a situation where people claim ownership of those houses while they are living in Maiduguri. “Your highness kindly compiles the list of IDPs from Jaudari village, all the houses should be allocated to them.” Zulum also supervised aid distribution to more than 25,000 IDPs and vulnerable members of the host community in Bama. The IDPs, now staying in Bama town, were mostly from villages sacked by insurgents in Banki, Gulumba, and Ngurosoye of Bama Local Government Area. He told the IDPs that: “I want to sympathize with you; you have been in a very difficult situation. “The insurgents have displaced you from your houses and communities, without any means of livelihoods.” “The food items you see here are jointly provided by the Borno State Government and the Federal Government. “President Muhammadu Buhari is very compassionate about your plights, may God bless him.” Orders reopening of 3 secondary schools Meanwhile, he ordered the re-opening of three secondary schools in Bama. The re-opening, according to him, was to enable primary school pupils to continue with their education. Continued; “I will soon come back to Bama. I will personally supervise the enrollment of students. “We’ve to reopen Government Day Secondary School; the Mega School will also be converted to a Secondary School, while a Girls’ Secondary School will be sited in Shettimari Primary School temporarily.” He also informed the Shehu of Bama of government’s plan to resettle people at Ngurosoye village and Banki, a border town with Cameroon. He said while the IDPs in Menawo and Kirawa taking refuge in Cameroon; will be repatriated to return Banki. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .