Senator Emmanuel Bwacha PHOTO: Twitter The Senate deputy minority leader, Senator Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) yesterday lamented that the Nigerian senate was incapacitated to debate the current global protest against racism after the brutal murder of George Floyd because of the many unresolved injustices in Nigeria. He said Nigeria lack the moral capacity to accuse the United States of America if at home citizens visit injustices on fellow Nigerians
According to him, the country has a lot to learn from the United States of America in the unfolding anti-racism protest. It would be recalled that there has been spontaneous peaceful and violent protests after the callous killing of the black man George Floyd all over the globe including Nigeria. The senator who rose on Order 43 to make personal explanation said, “The global protest against racism which was ignited by the action of the racist Police in Minneapolis, United States of America. “I would have involved order 52 of what we know as an open demonstration of hatred for blacks in America. You are all aware of the very wicked and unspeakable manner in disregard to the sanctity of human life the police snuffed life out of Floyd. “We are all aware of what followed, the wicked despicable manner the life of George Floyd was taken from this world.
“This singular incident, Mr President, ordinarily would have generated debates even in this chamber. Meaning, I would have invoked order 52 to enable us to debate this matter.” However, he said, “We lack the moral capacity to accuse the United States of America and am going to say this. Mr President, we have a lot to learn from the United States of America. America that claims it is the champion of democracy, America that claims it is the champion of industrialisation. America that claims is the champion of Western civilisation. This matter bleeds the heart of any reasonable human being.” According to the lawmaker, his decision not to bring up the matter for consideration was due to the fact that Nigeria lacks the moral standing to condemn the killing of Mr Floyd as the country presently grapples with its own problems of killings arising from ethnic and religious discrimination. Bwacha, however, explained that the reason for bringing up the death of George Floyd was to remind Nigerians on the need to work on all associated problems that are spin-offs from the country’s diversity. He said here in Nigeria, needless communal clashes, kidnapping, religious and tribal discrimination has been the country’s burden that would give it the moral right to rebuke America. He said what is happening is a protest against racism which is a known epidemic in the United States of America adding that Nigeria has to learn from is the white supremacy over the blacks. “White man’s claim of superiority over the black man is what we all know is not the fault of the Blackman.”
Bwacha was countered by his colleague, Senator Adamu Aliero (APC – Kebbi Central), who also relied on order 43 on personal explanation, to crave the indulgence of the Senate not to entertain any matter that may spark unnecessary controversy. He said, I am sorry, the issue the deputy minority was raising was very controversial. Senator Bwacha is alluding to so many things that are dividing us. It’s not proper not to hear from the other sides. Issues like this should be brought to the floor of the Senate through a proper order so that everybody should contribute.”
The Senate President, Dr Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan interjected saying order 43, is not subject to debate and if any of their colleagues chooses to come under personal explanation, and anyone felt there is anything to be addressed, it can be done later. Responding to Aliero, Bwache said “I am saying what should bring us together as a nation. It’s not controversial. I am from Taraba State. As a man from the Taraba South, we have a crisis there that shouldn’t have happened. “For what? It’s unnecessary. These are issues I want us to address. Why should we hate one another? It is unnecessary that we love one another and I want to appeal that let’s be keepers of one another. Commenting on the issue the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, called on leaders in the country to take advantage of the country’s diversity to put together the required strength to foster unity, peace and development. In his remarks, the Senate President, Ahmad Lawan said, “We should ensure as leaders that we use and weave this diversity into strength, and that is trying to provide leadership regardless of geographical, ethnic and religious differences. Many of our leaders are trying to do that, so I think you tried to deviate a little bit and it almost turned controversial.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .