As part of efforts to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease, a transport expert, Johnny Enagwolor, has implored motorists and commuters to remain vigilant and take the necessary precautions to avoid community spread of the virus. Enagwolor, who decried the level of commercial drivers’ preparedness to limit the spread, said commuters across Lagos need transport operators that take their wellbeing seriously. The expert, who doubles as the Managing Director and Co-Founder, Plentywaka, wants commuters to take responsibility of their health while going about their daily activities. He spoke at the launch of a staff bus solutions service, which will help minimise employees’ risk of exposure to COVID-19 by providing a safer and more convenient means of travel to and from work. According to him, with all buses cleaned and fumigated, the solutions will deliver a service in line with the state government’s directives, enabling the vital Lagos workforce to safely return to full capacity. The new service allows companies to either lease buses directly from bus-hailing service or have their staff picked up and dropped off from designated points. Both options include a driver approved by the firm as well as access via mobile to a dashboard for real-time monitoring and data collection. Enagwolor said: “Similar to most businesses, COVID-19 created a major hurdle for us but this is the time to be dynamic in meeting customers’ needs, especially those around safety. “Now more than ever, commuters across Lagos need transport operators that take their wellbeing seriously and that’s why we’re expanding our service. We’ve always had a strong track record on safety and now is the best time to build on this.” “While the easing of the lockdown provides some assurance, we still need to remain vigilant and take the necessary precautions to avoid community spread of the virus. Through the launch of the Plentywaka Staff Bus Solutions, we are offering reassurances for business owners and staff anxious about travelling, and through providing a safer alternative, they can get back to achieving their 2020 plans,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .