In today’s ever-evolving world, in order to stay ahead of the competition, one must possess a wide range of abilities and take on various challenges but balancing a career spanning different intertwined areas of specialization is a skill possessed by few creatives. And British DJ, presenter, and music producer, Manny Nortè is one of the aforementioned few. He is one of the most long-standing and respected figures in the UK’s urban music scene having hosted the likes of Cardi B, Stormzy and Nicki Minaj to mention a few. He sits down with The Guardian Life to discuss his love for music, motivating factors and plans for the future. Manny Norte and Mariah Carey In the family house we use to have family parties, my family put me into music when growing up, I started out as a dancer, which made me have love for the music. From dancing, I progressed to DJing & Producing, the rest is history. It came when we first heard Rema’s verse for the first time and it just stuck with us. I’m a fan of all their music. I’ve been playing their music on my show over the years, and always wanted to mix different cultures and different sounds; which is really important to me. Even though I was born in West London, my blood is from Teshie, Ghana, where both of my parents were born and raised. I’ve been going back to Ghana all my life. However, Christmas last year marks 10 years consistently in which I’ve been going back home to spend time with family and reinforcing my brand in the entertainment world in Ghana. This is why Ghana was such an important place for me to shoot the video. The interviews that have stood out have been Cardi B, Stormzy, & Dave. Stormzy gave me a back to back directors cut of his album; Cardi spoke about the track with Nikki Minaj, which was a worldwide exclusive – which went viral worldwide; and Dave’s interview was very insightful & informative. I also love the fact that we have a genuine relationship outside of music. Manny Norte and Akon I would love to interview Burna Boy. I love what he’s doing. Probably working in film, fashion or trying to be a marvel superhero (lol). Burna Boy’s Odogwu and Jealous by Fireboy and female-wise, I listen to Tiwa Savage & Teni the entertainer. I would say Dj Spinall, & KP vibes who did a lot on Burna Boy’s album. When I wasn’t able to present on a radio station, was probably the most difficult period of my music career as radio and music is a part and parcel of my life. Keep going and make sure you love it before anything else. Right now, I’m working on the Manny Nortè project. I’m looking forward to working with hot and exciting new artists. There is more exciting music to come.