Nigerians wishing to earn global reckoning by designing fresh ideas for sports organisation in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic era have been presented such opportunity by Ireland’s leading sports organisations. These Irish organisations are partnering with global brands, including the International Sports and Culture Organisation (ISCA), the Association for Sports for All (TAFISA), The Apo Group, the rugby site, Sports for Life and other sports bodies to launch a free online global challenge aimed at restructuring sports and physical activities during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the organisers of the event, the challenge, which will hold from June 26 to 28, seeks the best ideas on how sports and physical activities can survive and thrive in a world radically changed by the experience of the coronavirus. “We are seeing empty football stadiums, matches taking place behind closed doors and sports clubs of all kinds restricting access. Social distancing restrictions are making training different and changing the nature of the participation in sport. “At the same time, people are more conscious than ever of the need to stay physically active and the contribution of sports and physical activity to health and well-being is important. “This free to enter global challenge is designed to address the question of, how might we sustainably redesign sports and physical activity for children and families, the young and the not so young. “For participants, spectators, fans and community groups. So, that it is inclusive, accessible, attainable and fun during the pandemic period and after,” the organisers said. They said the proposals should be targeted at specific age group or ability level at the different ways in which people interact with sports and physical activities and how space is used. The global design challenge for sport and physical activity will take place this weekend. Teams are expected to submit ideas on line to Devpost at https://bit.ly/3erylok. The global design challenge is set in the context of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals following the policy framework enshrined in the Kazan Action Plan (2017), which vision is inclusiveness, access for all sports, physical activity and maximising the contributions of sports to sustainable development and people, as well as protecting the integrity for sports. Teams that are successful at the pitching stage will be provided with the opportunity to incubate and develop their ideas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .