 (FILES) In this file photo taken on December 21, 2019 Barcelona’s French forward Antoine Griezmann (R) celebrates with Barcelona’s Uruguayan forward Luis Suarez after scoring a goal during the Spanish league football match FC Barcelona against Deportivo Alaves at the Camp Nou stadium in Barcelona on December 21, 2019. – Two points separate Spain’s greatest rivals FC Barcelona and Real Madrid CF ahead of the return to top-flight games on June 11, 2020, when the derby between Sevilla and Real Betis will end a 93-day hiatus and launch a five-week sprint to the finish. Neither Eden Hazard nor Luis Suarez expected to play much, or perhaps any, part in the run-in after Hazard underwent surgery on a broken foot in March and Suarez had an operation on his right knee in January. (Photo by LLUIS GENE / AFP)  Hazard was looking beyond Real Madrid to the Euros after undergoing surgery on his right foot in March while some felt Suarez had played his last game for Barcelona after having a knee operation in January. Instead, both have been thrown a lifeline, Suarez to preserve his career at Barca and Hazard to kickstart his with Madrid. After Real Madrid paid 100 million euros ($108.4 million) to sign him from Chelsea last year, fans sprinted outside the Santiago Bernabeu to beat the queues for Hazard’s unveiling, and around 50,000 made it inside. However questions were soon being asked about his weight in pre-season, and he has struggled with injury all season. Every time he has come back, Hazard has needed time to find form, initially lacking that burst of speed and change of direction that at his best, can leave a defender for dead. But reports from Valdebebas have been positive, with Thibaut Courtois saying on Sunday he had been surprised by the Belgian’s “rhythm” before adding a note of caution. “We can’t expect him to be on top form without playing,” he said. Barca coach Quique Setien has been similarly circumspect over Suarez, who is also not renowned for quick returns to sharpness after time away. Fitness questions 
“He is better than we expected,” Setien said on Sunday. “But the question is how ready he is after so long out and whether he is ready to start.” Despite winning the Clasico on March 1, Madrid was in a slump before the hiatus, that 2-0 victory over Barcelona their only win in five games. They lost the defensive steel that saw them go 21 matches unbeaten either side of Christmas and a familiar bluntness, still lingering from Cristiano Ronaldo’s departure, remains. Hazard was supposed to help fill the creative void but 11 games over five and a half weeks offer no room for rustiness and, unlike Suarez, this is still a new team to him. Fifteen appearances in 10 months hardly breed familiarity. Barca meanwhile need bodies as they have only 19 fit senior players, which leaves them surprisingly ill-equipped to capitalise on two extra substitutes. The club sold back-ups in January to raise funds for a striker that never arrived and instead they were left to exploit La Liga’s emergency signing rule in February to poach Martin Braithwaite from Leganes. But Suarez brings experience and quality, not to mention the best out of Lionel Messi. In full flow, Messi could see off Real Madrid but the Argentinian has had his own injury problems this season, the latest a minor thigh complaint that led to him missing three training sessions last week. Barcelona has a two-point advantage and the marginally more favourable fixtures, particularly as the usually heated atmospheres at Sevilla and Alaves will be negated by empty stands. They play Atletico Madrid at home too but have not lost to them at Camp Nou in 14 years. Yet bubbling distrust of the Barca board could resurface at any moment and Madrid has the better head-to-head record, meaning they only need to be level on points to be crowned champions. They play away at high-flying Real Sociedad and Athletic Bilbao but more important could be how they take to their new training ground home, the Alfredo di Stefano Stadium, while renovation work continues at the Bernabeu. Madrid has Marco Asensio fit again while Gareth Bale has been the fittest of anyone in training. Zinedine Zidane’s knack for winning knock-out tournaments might even be well-suited to a 39-day sprint finish. Zidane was close to the sack in September but almost a year later, only one thing is certain. Nothing is the same. Fixtures (all times GMT) Thursday Sevilla v Real Betis (2000) Friday Granada v Getafe (1700), Valencia v Levante (2000) Saturday Espanyol v Alaves (1200), Celta Vigo v Villarreal (1500), Leganes v Real Valladolid (1730), Mallorca v Barcelona (2000) Sunday Athletic Bilbao v Atletico Madrid (1200), Real Madrid v Eibar (1730), Real Scciedad v Osasuna (2000) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .