Some Nigerians more concerned about insecurity than COVID-19, says NOA
Residents of Enugu State have expressed anxiety over reports of increasing cases of coronavirus, as it had recorded over 93 confirmed cases and five deaths. Their fear was heightened by viral social media reports posted by one Charlie Anakwe, who claimed to be a medical doctor, urging the people to avoid certain hospitals, as cases of the virus had been established in them. “Please tell your friends and relatives that they should avoid National Orthopedic Hospital, Enugu for now. There is outbreak of COVID-19 at the hospital. About 25 medical personnel have tested positive. “Cases have been reported in Eastside Hospital, Posh Hospital, Memfys and Parklane Specialist Hospital. Be careful how you attend condolences. As a doctor, I can tell you that Enugu is riddled with COVID-19. Mount Camel Hospital has been shut down,” the report stated. Efforts to reach the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Ikechukwu Obi over the development failed, as he neither responded to text message, nor picked his calls. But the Enugu State chapter of the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) blamed the escalation of the virus to attitude of residents who had continued to flout safety guidelines on the pandemic. Similarly, Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, said the state had recorded 31 new cases of COVID-19, lamenting that the figures had reached 4,895 suspected cases of COVID-19 in 17 council areas. Okundia, who spoke to journalists in Benin City, noted that the state government had taken serious measures to contain the pandemic, visiting over 900 communities for Active Case Search (ACS) and contact tracing of 2,310 others who had contact with confirmed cases. He said 779 confirmed cases were recorded in Oredo, Esan West, Egor, Ovia North East, Ikpoba-Okha, Uhunmwode, Etsako Central, Esan South East, Akoko-Edo, Esan Central, Ovia South West, Owan East, Esan North East, Etsako West and Etsako East councils. Okundia, who urged residents to complement the state government’s efforts at containing the pandemic by turning out for the screening and testing exercise across the state, cautioned residents against giving out wrong addresses and phone numbers during testing and screening. Meanwhile, the National Orientation Agency (NOA) declared that some Nigerians were more worried about insecurity and rising criminality in some part of the country than they were about the COVID-19 pandemic. Director General of NOA, Dr. Garba Abari, stated this, while presenting its second report on the agency’s observations during sensitisation activities on the fight against COVID-19 in Abuja. Specifically, Abari noted that Nigerians in Zamfara, Katsina and Kaduna states hold the view that insecurity and bandits in the Northeastern states required more urgent action than coronavirus. He pointed out that disbelief of the danger of COVID-19 still persisted among some Nigerians in spite of their awareness about the scourge. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .