The Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo-Olu on Civic Engagement, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, has said her office will continue to work hard to ensure peaceful co-existence among the people of Lagos through meaningful engagement and amicable resolution of issues that could lead to breakdown of law and order in the state. She made this known this at a ministerial press briefing in commemoration of the first year of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration in office yesterday, where she also called for patience and adherence to all the safety protocols directed by government to stem the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The special adviser said: “While no efforts would be spared at creating understanding and support for the various programmes and policies of the state government, particularly the THEMES agenda, our efforts at promoting civic responsibility of the citizenry will not be relented as it is central to attainment of a greater Lagos. Adebowale further disclosed that Lagos has fed 11,965 pupils in primary schools across the state in the last one year. The pupils, drawn from primary four to six were fed under the ‘Snacks for Thought’ pilot scheme of the government. She said the scheme was meant for pupils at the crèche and primary four to six, adding that the scheme complements the Home Grown School Feeding Programme of the Federal Government that covered only pupils in primary one to three. According to her, this was to ensure that all pupils in Lagos State partook in the school feeding programme. “It is instructive to state that the pilot scheme was held in Lagos Island Local Government Area where 33 public primary schools, with a total of 11,965 pupils participated in the one week pilot school feeding exercise,” she said. Adebowale stressed that the importance of the initiative could not be over-emphasied as the nutritious snacks and juice were to energise pupils for memory retention of lessons learnt, improve school attendance and academic performance and also serve as an incentive for higher enrolment and retention of pupils in public schools. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .