Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s tremendous achievements recorded in one year of his second term in office have placed the state among the best state in Nigeria. Besides, Ganduje’s penchant for innovation and human-oriented practical project springing up across the state. Highlighting some of the contributions of Ganduje’s administration in the last one year, the commissioner for rural and community development, Hon. Musa Illiasu Kwankwaso said the Governor has fulfilled more than half of his campaign promises. For instance, Kwankwaso stressed that in areas of educational development, Ganduje has taken the state to the highest feats were he made free and compulsory education for teaming children most of whom are wards of the poor in the society. Other areas Ganduje surpasses expectations, according to Kwankwaso, include physical construction which fast giving Kano new face. The construction of five flyovers and underpasses in the state to ease the movement of motorists in the metropolitan is evident. While commending the effort of the state governor in curtailing the pandemic of COVID-19  the commissioner,  calls on the public to always observe safety and prevention protocols that include social distancing, use of face masks, hand washing and general personal hygiene. He attributed the successes to the prayers, support and fatherly advice from the people of the state stressed the need not relent in this direction. Kwankwaso called on the people of the state to rally round the present administration to enable it to execute more viable projects across the 44 local government areas. Kwankwaso said his ministry has launched the installation of a transformer which is serving one of the isolation centres in the treatment and management of COVID-19. The project is in continuation of the electrification project embark by the state government was a brand new transformer was provided and installed at Yusuf Maitama Sule University teaching hospital, Kwanar Dawaki and Yargaya facility. He said the move was part of Ganduje led administration to provide a more conducive atmosphere to ease the power challenges in the state. He reiterated the present administration’s commitment to work tirelessly in the crusade to curb the spread of the disease across the state. Kwankwaso also said one of the main concern of Governor Ganduje is ensuring adequate health care and provision of all necessary needs to improve the living standard at all nooks and crannies of the state To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .