The festering crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (ÀPC) in Rivers State, took a new twist, as Chairman of the sacked Caretaker Committee, Isaac Ogbobula, claims he remains in charge of the party and not Igo Aguma. Ogbobula, who chaired the State Caretaker Committee that was declared illegal by a Port Harcourt High Court, last Tuesday, declared yesterday, that he remained in charge and asked statutory members of the party’s State Executive Committee to ignore a virtual meeting called Igo Aguma. He stated that based on the judgment order of Justice George Omereji, in Suit No. PHC/4355/2019, that sacked his committee and directed the APC and its National Chairman to constitute a fresh caretaker committee within 48 hours of the judgment, he had filed an appeal for a Stay of Execution of that order. “As a party to the said suit, I have exercised my undoubted constitutional right of appeal by filing a Notice of Appeal on June 10, 2020, along with a Motion on Notice for an injunction pending appeal/stay of execution. These court processes were duly served on the APC and its National Chairman within the 48 hours timeline given by the Court for the constitution of a fresh Caretaker Committee” he said. Ogbobula said as a responsible political party, the APC could not proceed to execute the judgment of Justice Omereji in the face of his appeal and the accompanying application for stay. According to him, the APC is an avowed rule of law tilted party has to abide by the established principles of the law by the Supreme Court of Nigeria already declared in several decisions. “The implication, therefore, is that the status quo ante Bellum before the judgment of Justice G.O. Omereji remains. This means that the Caretaker Committee set up by the National Working Committee of the Party in September 2019 headed by me remains intact,” he said. Consequently, he said had not summoned any meeting of any organ of the APC in the state, all statutory members of the State Executive Committee of the Party were asked to ignore and completely disregard the purported meeting called by Aguma. “I and the members of the Caretaker Committee shall, in due course, by a well-publicised notice, call a proper meeting of the appropriate organ of the party in furtherance of the party’s activities,” he added. The Guardian learnt that 20 out of the 27 statutory members of the State Executive Committee attended the meeting called by Aguma yesterday. Aguma was quoted to have said that reconciliation and conduct of congresses in line with the Supreme Court judges were the primary focus of the meeting. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .