It was just sheer coincidence that this comment and former Governor of Kaduna State Abubakar Dangiwa Umar’s timely letter to President Muhammadu Buhari on his alleged “nepotism pushing Nigeria to the brink” hit the public space almost at the same time. The organic content of this editorial had been written before the retired soldier’s bombshell, which was widely reported yesterday. And so Umar’s love letter to the President only confirmed the constancy of truth at such a time as this: that the biggest trouble with the Buhari administration is the elephant in the room variously tagged as “lopsided appointments,” ‘‘nepotism,” “sectionalism”, ‘‘parochialism,’’ etc. This newspaper spotted this again last week in the context of Buhari’s consistency in failing to respect the federal character provision in the country’s constitution. The provision is designed to address lopsided appointments and build a peace that has eluded us since independence almost 60 years ago.    
 
This is the origin of our comment again before Umar’s intervention. The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) the other day retired nine directors contrary to Buhari’s reported but unconfirmed order. The development, though bizarre in its entirety, is reminiscent of his penchant for the violation of the federal character principle and in turn the constitution, in several appointments made since 2015. The brazen, yet undisguised attempt to deepen sect and sectionalism along our fault lines is undemocratic, unconstitutional, perfidious and highly condemnable.  According to the body, entire southern Nigeria was allotted only three top management positions in the NNPC. The oil-producing zones of South-south, South-east, and South-west are left with one chief operating officer position each, and a few senior and middle-level management positions in peripheral and incidental subsidiaries, departments and divisions of the corporation. To say the least, the northernisation of federal offices is legendry and a daylight assault on merit or national integration. That was the warning signal Umar too spoke to last Sunday.  It was at this time five years ago that Buhari concluded his inauguration speech with the memorable quote: ‘‘I belong to everybody; I belong to nobody.’’ Nigerians already know better and could see through his parochial and clannish sentimentality. His is a presidency that has for five years belonged more to northerners than to all Nigerians – the electorate. If not, let Nigerians see fairness, equitable distribution of appointments to our best hands across the country, and give every member of this entity a sense of belonging. It is a step in the right direction to secure the future of one Nigeria by respecting the letter and the spirit of the constitution, which Buhari has on two occasions sworn to defend. It is hoped that our leader realises the consequences of a breach of the organic law of the land – the constitution.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .