- Bauchi records 69 fresh cases, ASUU donates palliatives to Kebbi Kwara State on Tuesday night lost another coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patient, the second fatality since the pandemic broke out in the state. The 50-year-old woman had serious underlying medical conditions, Kwara State Technical Committee on COVID-19 disclosed yesterday. “We regret to announce that the patient did not make it despite the efforts of the medical personnel to save her. Our heartfelt condolences go to her family. We stand by them at this trying time, and restate the need for everyone to keep safe by adhering to all COVID-19 safety protocols,” the statement added. The committee also announced the discharge of 18 patients who tested negative twice. IN Bauchi State, an additional 69 cases were recorded on Tuesday, the highest number since the virus entered the state on March 24. The state now has a total of 364 cases. Officials of the state’s task force on coronavirus said the 69 cases were identified and confirmed by laboratory investigation. “All follow-up samples came out to be positive again. So we don’t have any discharge at the moment. With 131 active cases, the state is now ranked 11 in the country,” the response team said. It added that the results of 71 samples were still being awaited. “So far, 2,478 samples had been thoroughly investigated where 364 have been the total confirmed persons infected with COVID-19 in Bauchi. Already 224 have been discharged.” The team lamented the impact of incessant travels, which it said: “increases the possibility of infection.” It also warned against turning communities to epicentre of diseases, while enjoining the residents to adhere to the essential protocols of prevention and control mechanism. MEANWHILE, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Kebbi State University of Science and Technology, Aliero (KSUSTA) branch, has donated support materials to Kebbi State Government in the fight against COVID-19. The items were presented yesterday at the premises of the primary healthcare unit, Birnin Kebbi. While presenting the items, chairperson of the union, Dr. Ibrahim Wawata, said the donation was part of ASUU’s obligations, which include teaching, research, and community service Governments worldwide are looking into easing the lockdown measure and the union deems it necessary to donate the items to support the government in its effort to curb the pandemic, as controlling it cannot be left in hands of the government alone, he added. He commended Governor Abubakar Bugudu and the task force on their proactive and moderate measures, which has yielded positive results. Chairman of the task force/ Commissioner for Health, Ja’afar Muhammad, commended ASUU for the kind gesture and acknowledged that the donation was timely as it came when the government was considering easing the lockdown in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .