World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental heavyweight title holder, Onoriode ‘Godzilla’ Ehwarieme, is looking forward to international fight soon after the COVID-19 brouhaha is over. Ehwarieme, who is popularly known as ‘Godzilla’ floored Argentine Ariel ‘Chiquito’ Baracamonte at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS), Lagos in January. It was one of the easiest fights for the Oghara-born boxer, who against all odds secured the title after his combination of vicious blows floored a giant-looking Argentine boxer in their 12-round contest. It took just one minute and 16 seconds, and Ariel ‘Chiquito’ Bracamonte was already crawling on the floor. The victory at GOtv Boxing Night 20 was the 17th knockout in Ehwarieme’s boxing career. Now, Ehwarieme, who is 6ft 7/201cm tall, is looking forward to another international fight. He told The Guardian yesterday from his base in Asaba, Delta state that he had been undergoing training to be in good shape since the COVID-19 lockdown disrupted sporting activities and businesses around the world. “The COVID-19 has actually disrupted sporting activities around the world, but I am hopeful it will be over soon,” Ehwarieme stated. “I am in torch with my people, and as soon as this virus is off the ground, I may get the chance to fight for the international title.” Ehwarieme, who is being tagged as the new ‘Mike Tyson’ by his fans said Nigerians have what it takes to rule the world as Tyson did in his active days. He is expected to appear in the colour of Team Delta at Edo 2020 National Sports Festival in kickboxing. He said that fighting as a kickboxer at Edo 2020 sports festival would prepare him for bigger challenges. “You never can tell the pattern your opponent will bring at any boxing event. Some of them have a good background in kickboxing. I have won some medals for Delta in kickboxing in the past, and it will be good to do it again at Edo 2020,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .