The suspect • Man admits defiling seven-year-old girl in Onitsha
• Okada rider remanded for raping six-year-old girl twice The police in Yobe State have arrested one 80-year-old man, Mohammed Bara’u, of Lawan Fannami ward in Gashu’a for allegedly raping a 10-year-old girl after luring her into his room where he sexually abused her. The man was arrested after the case was reported to the police by Bade Local Government Shari’a Committee and some local non-governmental organisations (NGOs.) It was reported that the suspect, a wood seller, had been persuading the girl using chocolates, but last Sunday, he succeeded in sending the girl to pick something from his room. It was reported that immediately the young girl entered the room, the old man followed her and forcefully had carnal knowledge of her. Medical examination at the General Hospital in Gashu’a revealed that the girl was defiled while the suspect has equally confessed to the crime, saying, “I had carnal knowledge of the girl once.” The victim lost both her father and mother some years back. The suspect would be transferred to CID office, Damaturu on Friday, the police said. Meanwhile, a 32-year-old man, Chigbo Akpoluobi, who allegedly lured and raped a seven-year-old girl in Okpoko area of Onitsha, Anambra State, has been arrested by the police. It was gathered that the incident happened on Sunday afternoon, which left the little girl bruised. Neighbours consequently reported the incident to the police in the area. The suspect was said to have confessed to committing the crime, blaming it on the devil. The spokesperson of Anambra State police command, SP Haruna Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect had been arrested. He said: “On June 16, at about 12:30p.m. following a tip-off, police operatives attached to Okpoko Division arrested one Chigbo Akpoluobi (‘m’), aged 32, native of Asa village in Ohaji Egbema local Government Area of Imo State, but resides at Ubodukwu road, Nkitaku, Okpoko. “Meanwhile, the suspect has voluntarily confessed to the offence. The Commissioner of Police, CP John B. Abang, has directed that the case be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Awka, for discreet investigation after which suspect would be charged to court for prosecution.” In another case, a 28-year-old commercial motorcycle operator, Terver Awuha, of Idye Community, Makurdi town, Benue State, has been remanded by a Chief Magistrate Court for allegedly raping a six-year-old Bella Omachi twice. Arraigning the suspect, the police prosecuting officer, Sergeant Friday Kanshio, told the court that the mother of the victim, Deborah Omachi, had, on June 5, reported the matter at the ‘B’ Division Police Station in Makurdi.
She reported that “on June 3, at about 7:30p.m., she sent her daughter to buy noodles from a neighborhood shop, and while on her way, the accused allegedly stopped her and dragged her into his room and forcefully had sexual intercourse with her without her consent. “Again on June 5, at about 2:00p.m., the said Terver Awuha also took Bella Omachi into his room and had sex with her and gave her N100.” No plea was taken, but the Chief Magistrate, Mr Isaac Ajim, ordered that the accused be remanded at the Nigeria Correctional Service in Makurdi and adjourned the case till August 28 for further mention.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .