Tasks residents on safety of environment for socio-economic development Oyo State government has recorded 22 confirmed cases of COVID-19, Governor Seyi Makinde has said. Makinde, who revealed this on his official social media accounts, advised residents who notice any strange fever or sudden loss of taste/smell to visit the nearest community-based testing centre to get tested for COVID-19. He said that the test is free. “The COVID-19 confirmation tests for 22 suspected cases came back positive. The cases are from Oluyole (six), Lagelu (four), Ibadan South East (three), Ido (two), Ibadan South West (two), Ibadan North West (two), Ibadan North (one), Egbeda (one) and Akinyele (one) local councils. “So, the total number of confirmed cases in Oyo State today is 491,” he said. In another development, the state government has urged the residents to save the environment and contribute their quota towards making the state a better place to live. Permanent Secretary, Oyo State Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Dr. Basiru Olanrewaju, who spoke during the fifth anniversary of Greenway Environmental And Public Health Services Limited at the Centre for Sustainable Development (CESDEV), University of Ibadan (UI) at Bodija, Ibadan, said that very soon, Oyo State would unveil a new solid waste architecture. He said: “I want to urge us to save ourselves from ourselves. We are not saving the environment; we are saving ourselves. There is no way you can have economic and social development unless you have addressed environmental challenges that confront us.  Let us start from the home. Let’s start from individuals. I’m going to ensure that I will contribute my quota towards making our environment better. If all of us do this, we will live longer and better and the environment will be better for it.” On his part, the first Nigerian professor of Environmental Health Science and Chairman of Greenway, Prof. Godson Ana, said: “Today, we are talking about COVID-19. There are a lot of micros that are compromising the immunity of members of the public and predisposing them to various forms of health problems. That has a very negative impact on their well-being and invariably affecting the economy. “What is important is for humans to be able to manage his/her environment. We need to modify our habit and behaviour towards the environment. Clean our environment. Remove debris from the gutters. Don’t build on the waterways. Ensure that the drainages are well kept. Plan trees as trees are storm breakers.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .