A frontline medical doctor managing the dreaded COVID-19 has lost his life in the line of duty as 10 inmates tested positive for the virus in Bauchi State. Bauchi State Commissioner for Health Dr. Aliyu Maigoro made the disclosure while briefing the press on Wednesday. The inmates, who are part of the 69 persons who tested positive for the coronavirus pandemic in the State, has brought the total number of cases in Bauchi State to 364. While providing a daily update on the management of the global pandemic, officials of the State Task Force on Coronavirus said the fresh 69 cases were identified and confirmed through a laboratory investigation. Maigoro said, “All follow-up samples came out to be positive again, so we don’t have any discharge at the moment. “131 have been the new current active cases having received an increase in positive cases as a results of travel importation and sometimes community transmission. The State is now ranked 11 in the country with high cases of COVID-19,” the response team said. The COVID-19 response team said that 71 samples are still awaiting while more samples will be collected and sent for investigation. “As of today 9 June 2020, the case fatality rate has shifted back from 3.1% to 2.5%, it indicates an improvement in fatalities, no loss of life recorded from any of our patients,” Maigoro said. “So far 2,478 samples had been thoroughly investigated where 364 have been the total confirmed persons who had infected with the Coronavirus in Bauchi State and already 224 have been recovered, certified and discharged home.” The response team lamented at the impact of incessant travelling, saying it increases the possibility of infection which will trigger community transmission. It also enjoined the residents to adhere to the essential protocols of prevention and control mechanism. “Taking responsibility is key to self-protection and that is why we intensify case investigation, surveillance and contact tracing, and risk communication towards ensuring reasonable reduction and curb the rate of infection across communities, towns and villages,” it added. Bauchi has 364 total number of confirmed cases in the state so far. Active cases are 131.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .