Federal House of Representatives PHOTO:Twitter ……mourn Omozuwa, Ezekwe, Floyd, urges IGP to punish culprits
The House of Representatives has declared a state of emergency against rape and violence against women in the country. Adopting a motion sponsored by Mr Rotimi Agunsoye at the plenary presided by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, the House also condemned incidences of police brutality in both the country and far away the United States leading to the cold-blooded murder of George Floyd. In effect, the House urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr Mohammed Adamu to immediately cause investigations into the unfortunate cases of Uwa Omozuwa, Tina Ezekwe, the reported rape of a minor in Jigawa State, as well as all other reported cases of violence against women, with a bid to bringing the criminals to justice. The lawmakers who resolved to dress in black, at plenary Tuesday next week, in solidarity against the death of Uwa Omozuwa, Tina Ezekwe and other victims of rape and other fatal violence against women and girls in Nigeria, urged the authorities to launch a more effective campaign against rape and other violence against women and girls. The decision by the lawmakers to dress in black is also in solidarity against the death of George Floyd and all other victims of racial discrimination and police brutality in the United States of America and the world at large. Calling for the provision of testing kits for rape victims at all primary health centers in the country, the House urged the judiciary to dispense with rape cases expeditiously. The House also urged NAPTIP to publish the names and pictures of convicted rapists as part of measures to stem the ugly trend. Agunsoye (APC: Lagos) expressed concern over the growing spate of violence against women and girls recorded throughout the country. Blaming weak institutions, poor enforcement, poverty and unacceptable social practices for the ugly trend, he claimed that findings show that an alarming 28 percent of Nigerian women aged between 25 – 29 years have experienced some form of physical violence against them, many of which remain unreported, were not prosecuted or could not secure a conviction. The lawmaker who pushed for safety, equality, inclusion and protection of the rights of women and girls in Nigeria, noted that Nigeria, unfortunately, lacks a strong national response to support victims and survivors of violence against women and girls. He argued that better government policy and legislative framework is required to stem the rising violence against women as well as improve and support for women development. Recall that on Wednesday 27th May 2020, Miss Uwa Omozuwa, aged 22, a 100 level student of University of Benin, who went to study in her Church hall, was found in a pool of her blood after being raped and harmed. She died soon afterwards. On the 28th May 2020, Miss Tina Ezekwe, aged 17, was shot and killed by two trigger-happy officers of the Nigerian Police Force in a most unprofessional manner, in Oworonshoki, Lagos. The Police in Jigawa State, on the 30th May 2020, arrested 11 men (including a 57-year-old man), who lured and raped a 12-year-old minor. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .