The Ekiti State police command has arrested a man, Abdusalam Olalekan, for allegedly stealing uniform belonging to the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) to pose as a corps member in the state. Abdusalam, who was arrested on May 10, 2020, by operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) during a patrol along Atikankan area of Ado-Ekiti, had confessed to being a fake corps member. A statement in Ado Ekiti on Sunday by the command’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Asuquo Amba, revealed that Abdusalam had allegedly confessed to have burgled the apartment of one Abdulsalam Ibrahim at Aghenebode, Edo State and stole one NYSC fez cap and a pair of NYSC boot. “The suspect had during the burglary stole one identity card of Olabisi Onabanjo University belonging to Akinlabi Teslimat Damilola, Identity Card of Kebbi State University and National Youth Service Corp Identity Card both belonging to Abdulsalam Ibrahim.” The police boss said his men also nabbed one  Abdullahi Kabiru and Obaro Tunde, both from Ife Olukotun Village, Yagba East Local Government Area of Kogi State and came to Omuo-Ekiti where they sighted one Police Constable, Awoniyi Lawrence and allegedly assaulted him. “The two suspects who identified themselves as captains in the Nigeria Army attached to 44 Battalion in Niger State, assaulted the Police Constable beat him mercilessly and further threatened to break the Constable’s head with a bottle. “The Police Constable called for reinforcement, which led to the arrest of the two suspects. During interrogation, the two suspects confessed to be fake Soldiers and claimed that the Army Uniform belongs to one of their brothers”. The police commissioner added that his men has arrested one Emeka Ukwueze, a motorcycle parts sellers, for allegedly breaking into the shop of one Ejiofor Osai located along Nova road, Abeyo area of Ado Ekiti and carted away different kinds of motorcycle/generator parts.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .