The Economic Sustainability Committee (ESC) led by Nigeria vice president Yemi Osinbajo has recommended the suspension of orientation camp exercises of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) for two years. “The immediate focus in the Education sector is to address the disruptions caused by the pandemic and ensuing social distancing measures at all levels of education,” the report read submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari last week read in part. “In similar context, consideration will be given to suspending the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Orientation Camp Exercises for at least 24 months while allowing deployment to places of primary assignment. “This will ensure that there is no backlog in the National Service placement pipeline.” The report compiled by a team of ministers – Finance, Budget & National Planning, State, Budget and National Planning, Industry Trade & Investment, Labour and Employment, State, Petroleum Resources, Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Group Managing Director, NNPC and permanent Secretary, Cabinet Office – Secretary is aimed at proffering changes in different sectors of the country’s economy post-COVID-19. The report noted that “Practical steps will be taken to minimise disruption to learning, utilising technology as appropriate.” The committee proposed implementing of “virtual learning (either online or through broadcast), virtual convocation ceremonies or issuance of certificates (with postponed ceremonies) should be implemented to continue educational progression” in all schools across grade levels. Prior to the submission of the report to President Buhari, NYSC said it was already considering effecting some changes in its activities. For the first time in recent years, NYSC issued Certificates of National Service to corp members at the local government levels across the country after completion of their one-year service. NYSC spokesperson in a statement said the suspension of the usual passing out parade and issuance of the certificate at local government levels were precautionary measures while the country is still fighting coronavirus. The director-general of the scheme Ibrahim Shuaibu in an interview with the Economic Confidential in mid-May said he does not know when NYSC will mobilise corps members again. Shuaibu said the management will only organise fresh orientation exercise after receiving directives from relevant authorities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .