Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has commended the management of Edo University Iyamho for the brilliant performance recorded by the university in the October/November 2019 accreditation programme by the National Universities Commission (NUC), as well as other professional bodies. The governor stated that the accreditation performance of the university and the outcomes are in consonance with the policy direction of his administration on the development of education in the state.  He specifically noted the NUC’s accreditation of medicine and surgery (MBBS) programme, nursing science and the medical laboratory science programmes, as well as the MBBS pre-clinical accreditation by the medical and dental council of Nigeria (MDCN) as worthy of commendation. Eulogising the exemplary leadership of the vice chancello, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor, Obaseki gave kudos for the successes recorded so far in the university.
He said: “Truly, you are projecting the value of the university as a citadel of great learning and an institution of global recognition. While it is remarkable that you are recording landmark achievements, I salute the courage, passion, dedication and vision with which you are sustaining the institution in its enviable height.” Expressing his delight at the accreditation outcome, Aluyor attributed the good performance of the university during the exercise to teamwork and support of Obaseki led-administration. He commended the council, under the leadership of Emeritus Professor T.O.K Audu, Chancellor, Dr. Aderemi Makanjuola, staff and students of the university as well as the general public for believing in the vision and mission of the university. He also commended parents for having confidence in the quality of education offered by the university by sending their wards to the school. He pledged that the management would continue to do its best to ensure that its students get the best education in character and learning in line with the university’s mission of developing leaders. The institution’s spokesperson, Betcher Ekhosuhun said the road to strings of successful accreditation of various programmes started in November 2019 when the NUC visited the university and gave full accreditation status to its numerous programmes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .