Majek Fashek performing in his younger years | Image sourced from TooXclusive Veteran Nigerian musician Majek Fashek died yesterday with the news of his death confirmed this morning. Known for several songs, Fashek is considered one of Nigeria’s most iconic stars and has even been likened to Reggae legend Bob Marley. His song “Send Down The Rain” earned him the nickname Rainmaker but he has several other songs that has resonated with the people. In honour of Fashek’s legacy, here are our top seven songs from the late star in no particular order. Send Down The Rain  Off his debut album “Prisoner of Conscience,” the song catapulted Fashek into a star and won him a number of awards. There is also the myth that the song came at a time when Nigerians needed it the most. Myth has it that it was released during a really tough dry season in the northern part of Nigeria. Following the song’s release, the rains came down and the drought ended. So Long Too Long  Released at a time when his career was at the peak, Fashek performed the song in 1992 on the David Letterman Show, to promote his 1991 album “Spirit of Love.” The song contains powerful lyrics attacking white supremacists and the perceived white superiority over blacks. Religion na Politics  For a long while, there have been religious conflicts all over the world and Fashek was inspired by the conflict between Christians and Muslims in Nigeria. In this song, he reflects on the hypocrisy of organised religion. Majek Fashek Ina New York  After Fashek signed with Interscope Records in 1990, the reggae singer sang about his impression of United States. He debunks the idea that New York is a paradise and speaks of the poverty that exists there just as much as one can find in Lagos, Nigeria. I Come From The Ghetto  Grass to grace stories resonates with many and Fashek gives us a glimpse into his own story as he details his humble background and growing up in a tough place. I & I Experience  The title track of his second album, Fashek fights off external influences on his journey as he evokes battle with himself. Holy Spirt  From the album “Spirit of Love,” the song landed him a music contract with Island Records’ Mango imprint, dedicated to marketing reggae internationally. In Holy Spirit, Fashek infuses spirituality into the usual conscience music.