File photo of a man holding a slice of pizza | YouGov Do you love pizza enough to want to have it delivered to your doorstep for almost a decade? A Belgian man Jean Van Landeghem has been having pizza delivered to his home for almost ten years and the odd part is that he has never actually ordered any of them. Initially, the 65-year-old thought there was a mix up but then other deliveries of pizza and foods like kebabs or pittas started flowing in. He never had to pay for them, as he always refused to take them, but having people knocking on his door at all hours of day and night has become extremely frustrating. He claims that he starts shaking whenever he hears a scooter, thinking it’s yet another delivery he never asked for. He is fed up as he says the deliveries have been coming for the last nine years. “It started nine years ago, suddenly, a pizza delivery man handed me a whole load of pizzas. But I hadn’t ordered anything,” Van Landeghem recalled about the very first time he received a ‘ghost pizza’ delivery. “It can be on a weekday or during weekends, and at any time of day. [The orders come from] delivery services in Turnhout, but also from the surrounding area. I have even had orders delivered to me at 2:00 AM,” the 65-year-old told Het Laatste Nieuws. “I cannot sleep anymore. I start shaking every time I hear a scooter on the street. I dread that someone will come to drop off hot pizzas yet another time.” He told Belgian reporters that one day, in January of 2019, he received no less than 10 different food deliveries, one of which was for 14 pizzas. It is not just Jean who is frustrated but also the restaurants and pizzerias who are losing money with the fake deliveries and having to throw away the food. “It costs them money and they have to throw the food away. On the day that ten deliveries showed up, I did the math: it cost €450,” Van Landeghem said. Strangely enough, a friend Jean from a nearby town has been experiencing something very similar, for the exact same period as him, which leads them both to believe that this is all some sort of twisted prank thought up by a mutual friend or acquaintance. “A friend of mine who lives in Herenthout is going through exactly the same thing as I am. She has been receiving pizza she has not ordered for nine years, too,” Jean Van Landeghem said. “Sometimes we both get them on the same day. When that happens, we warn each other to expect a delivery. When I find out whoever has been bothering me for the past nine years, it will not be their best day.” Jean has been forced to report to the local police numerous times about his food delivery woes but it remains a mystery who is behind the fake orders.