 (FILES) In this file photo taken on May 20, 2020 a pharmacy tech holds a pill of Hydroxychloroquine at Rock Canyon Pharmacy in Provo, Utah. – The World Health Organization announced on June 3, 2020, that clinical trials of the drug hydroxychloroquine will resume as it searches for potential coronavirus treatments. On May 25, the WHO announced it had temporarily suspended the trials to conduct a safety review, which has now concluded there is “no reason” to change the way the trials are conducted. The UN health agency’s decision came after a study published in The Lancet medical journal suggesting the drug could increase the risk of death among COVID-19 patients. (Photo by GEORGE FREY / AFP)  “We have concluded that there is no beneficial effect of hydroxychloroquine in patients hospitalised with COVID-19,” said a statement from the chief investigators in the Recovery trial, which is run by the University of Oxford and is testing a number of potential treatments for the new coronavirus. They added they would stop “with immediate effect” recruiting patients to be given hydroxychloroquine, an old malaria and rheumatoid arthritis drug favoured by US President Donald Trump. The randomised clinical trial — considered the gold standard for clinical investigation — and has recruited a total of 11,000 patients from patients from 175 hospitals in the UK to test a range of drugs. Researchers said 1,542 patients were randomly assigned to hydroxychloroquine and compared with 3,132 patients given standard hospital care alone. They found “no significant difference” in mortality after 28 days between the two groups, while there was also no evidence it would shorten the amount of time spent in the hospital. The announcement comes in the same week that the World Health Organization (WHO) restarted its trials of hydroxychloroquine after they were temporarily halted because of a now-retracted study in The Lancet medical journal. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .