The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has arrested a social media Influencer Adedamola Adewale also known as Adeherself alongside four others for internet fraud. “The EFCC Lagos Zonal Office has arrested five alleged internet fraudsters, including one Adedamola Adewale, a self-acclaimed social media influencer, for their alleged involvement in internet-related fraud,” EFCC said on Twitter on Tuesday night. “The five suspects were apprehended in different areas of Lagos during a raid by operatives.” The commission said Adewale, 20, and her accomplice, Lamina Hamzat Ajibola, were arrested at the Agungi area of Lekki, Lagos State. The trio of Israel Onyebuchi, Emmanuel Olayode and Valentine Nwokorie were picked up at the Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos State. EFCC said Adewale and Ajibola were arrested sequel to intelligence linking them to online fraudulent activities with two brothers, Lasisi Wasiu Adeleke and Lasisi Riliwan Adeniyi, who are at large. “They were arrested at a four-bedroom duplex belonging to the two run-away fraudsters,” EFCC said. The antigraft body said during interrogation, Adewale (Adeherself) confessed to being a ‘picker’ in cyber fraud. The commission said the model usually poses as a lady to hoodwink her foreign “preys”. EFCC listed items recovered from the suspects include two Toyota Camry 2009 model cars, and a sum of N9,000,000.00 (Nine Million Naira only), which was found in Adewale’s account. The commission also stated that the other suspects; Onyebuchi, Olayode and Nwokorie were arrested for their alleged involvement in a romance scam. EFCC said they were arrested during another raid, following a separate intelligence. The anti-graft agency said investigation revealed that Nwokorie was posing as a female American citizen and sending photos as a porn star to defraud his victim while Onyebuchi was engaging in a love scam as well as forging foreign cheques. “Items recovered from the suspects include laptops and mobile phones,” EFCC said. EFCC said all the suspects will soon be arraigned in court as soon as investigations are concluded. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .