 Makinde. Photo: TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State yesterday said that the state’s Security Network, code-named Operation Amotekun, would be operational within the next one month. Makinde disclosed this during his address at the first anniversary of the state’s Ninth House of Assembly inauguration at the  Secretariat, Ibadan, Oyo State capital. He said: “We are constituting the Amotekun corps which, as you are aware, will complement the efforts of the federal security forces in securing our state. Within the next month, it will be fully operational. “Once the House of Assembly approves the commandant and chairman, it will be operational.” Makinde, who deplored the incessant rape cases, said the state government would strengthen the legislation to address rape cases in the state, disclosing that he had sent an Executive Bill to the House and it is awaiting transmission. “I want to also at this point commend the moves by this legislature to review the laws on rape and sexual assault. We all know that one of the best ways to address any type of crime is to strengthen the legislation around it. “On our part, we will do well to enforce the laws as directed by the judiciary. All the arms of government must continue to show zero tolerance for sexual violence. Only in this way, we will honour those who have been victims of these heinous crimes and ensure that the rest of the population are protected,” he said. Meanwhile, the Oyo State House of Assembly Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, said the House would be working in synergy with the executive arm of government to move the state forward. He disclosed that the House had passed 34 bills in the last year. In another development, the Oyo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Nwachukwu Enwonwu, yesterday disclosed that some suspected hoodlums had been arrested in connection with the murder of Barakat Bello and Azeezat Somuyiwa. Bello, 18, and Somuyiwa, 29, were reportedly raped and killed in separate incidents in different parts of Ibadan, the state capital, last week. Enwonwu, who did not disclose the actual number of the arrested suspects, said the police officers at the State Criminal Investigation Department, Iyaganku, Ibadan, had stepped up their game on the incidents. He said that it would be too hasty to conclude that the killings of the ladies were ritualistic but stressed that the outcome of police investigation would reveal the motive behind the hoodlums’ action. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .