Roxie Washington, Gianna and George Floyd Roxie Washington, the mother to late George Floyd’s six-year-old daughter has delivered an emotional speech during a virtual news conference on Tuesday. Speaking alongside her little girl and heir legal team, Roxie demanded justice for Floyd who died in police custody in Minneapolis. Speaking of the impact of Floyd’s death on their daughter, she said: “Gianna does not have a father. He will never see her grow up, graduate. He will never walk her down the aisle. If there’s a problem she’s having and she needs her daddy, she does not have that anymore.” She told reporters she wants all four officers involved in Floyd’s death to pay for the killing. “At the end of the day, they get to go home and be with their families,” Ms Washington said. Before being overcome by emotions, she added: “He loved her, he loved her so much. I’m here for my baby,” she said. “I’m here for George because I want justice for him, and I want justice for him because he was good. No matter what anybody thinks, he was good.” This is her first public comment since the May 25 death of Floyd whose death has caused outrage across the US and the world. The memorial march was organized by well-known Houston rappers Trae Tha Truth, who was a long-time friend of Floyd’s – and Bun B, who worked directly with Floyd’s family for the event. Houston’s mayor and police chief attended. The mayor’s office said 60,000 people gathered downtown to honour 46-year-old Floyd. Roxie Washington and Gianna | CNN Tens of thousands of protesters have taken to the streets to demand an end to racism and police brutality. The demonstrators continue to clash with law enforcement as they march the streets of cities including Minneapolis, Washington, Los Angeles and New York. Floyd lived most of his 46 years in Houston’s historically black Third Ward neighborhood, located about a mile south of the park where the march began. He moved from Houston to Minneapolis in recent years in search of better job opportunities, Washington said. He found work as a truck driver and a security guard at Conga Latin Bistro and the local Salvation Army. Washington said he sent a portion of his pay to Houston and remained active in his younger daughter’s life. He was also a doting father, Washington said, who slept while she was in labor with Gianna but awoke immediately upon hearing the newborn cry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .