– Starting industrial starch/adhesive manufacturing plant Business Overview
Starch, in recent times, has found numerous applications in various industries like Textile, Paper and Printing, Plywood, Battery, Laundry, Paint, Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Food. Starch has more than 100 known derivatives. These include high Fructose syrup, D-Glucose, Sorbitol, Dextrin, Alcohol, Acetone, Modified Aldehyde, Maltose, Alkyd resins, Starch esters, Starch ethers, Phelnoic resins, Emulsion stabilisers, and a host of others.
Starch adhesives, on the other hand, are available in different forms including pure liquid solution, suspension, dispersion (including emulsion), paste, fusible solid and fusible film and are used to increase bond strength and flexibility as well as improving the stability of changes in atmospheric moisture in many chemical solutions. Market prospects
The demand for starch/adhesive is very high and far from being satisfied. The domestic market has a very bright future and the current shortfall in domestic supply is evidenced in the large import figures standing against this class of products in Nigeria’s import bills annually. Raw materials
Starch raw materials are locally sourced and they include Cassava, Ammonium Salt, Alkali Chemical Glue Adjuvant and Water. Machinery 
The plant is made up of steam boiler, graters, specific mixers, liquid pumps, filters, and dryers, etc. other ancillary utilities like water and electricity are statutory. Production process 
The production process begins with processing and grating of the raw materials, which is mainly cassava (other raw materials like maize, sorghum, potato are also available but more costly). This is followed by sieving and filtration to obtain starch. The starch is pre-cooled in a reactor and treated with various chemicals, water, hydrolysing, neutralising, and decolouring agents depending on the class or purity level required. Water is thereafter evaporated from the mass to facilitate setting and drying as required. Distribution/marketing
The envisaged plant can set up its own sales/marketing team to engage in a sustained one-on-one sales drive. Advertising options could be based on usage of flyers and referrals and delivery vehicles. Manpower
The promoter(s) should be experienced in industrial starch production, management and supervisory skills.
In addition, a total of six staff is required in the short-term operations of the plant. They are a skilled worker (1), semi-skilled workers (2), the salesman (1), Driver-cum-salesman (1), and security operative (1) Investment
Estimated Start-up cost:		N9,500,000 – N12,000,000
Potential profit:			N12,500,000 – N15,000,000.00/year
This profile, or any similar one, can be developed into a bankable proposal for any interested investor.
For further clarification, contact us.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .