Ohanaeze applauds JAMB top scorers, mourns Adchie The youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has disclosed that it is mobilising to search forests and hideouts for herdsmen who have been killing, destroying farmlands and raping women and girls in the South East region. This followed the expiration of the ultimatum issued to them two weeks ago and the influx of young men from the North, who disguise as almajirai and are relocating to the South East amid interstate travel restrictions only to disappear into forests and other hideouts. Surprised at the South-East governors’ indifference to the worsening insecurity in the zone, the youths, led by Arthur Obiora told The Guardian that the group would begin the next line of action at the expiration of the ultimatum it earlier issued the intruders. Obiora said the group has the records of the hideouts and operational modalities of the herdsmen and other insurgents in Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu Imo, Delta, Rivers and other South-South states.
Meanwhile, Ohanaeze Ndigbo commended two Igbo students of Anambra extraction, Maduafokwa Egoagwuagwu Agnes and Nwobi Okechukwu David, who scored 365 and 363 out of 400 points in the 2020 University Matriculation Examinations (UTME). Its President General, Chief Nnia Nwodo, described the duo as the “pride of Ndigbo,” noting that they had replicated the brilliant performance of Igbo son, Ezeanula Franklin Ekene, who also emerged first in the 2019 UTME. “These sterling performance of these children have become more poignant considering the obvious catastrophe in education in the country with the falling standard of education,” he said. Nwodo urged the youngsters to avoid any acts that could distract and deter them from attaining the great heights God had destined for them. He assured the candidates that the apex Igbo socio-cultural group would keep them constantly in its radar to monitor their educational development in the coming years. He congratulated the schools, their parents and the Anambra State Government, urging them to ensure that they remained focused for the benefit of Ndigbo and the country at large. Also, Nwodo expressed sadness over the recent death of Professor James Nwoye Adichie, father of female Nigerian writer, Chimamanda Adichie. He lamented that Adichie, who was the first professor of statistics in the country, died at a time when his wealth of experience could have helped the country to resolve most of its statistical problems. The Ohanaeze chief commiserated with the Adichie’s family for the loss and urged them to take solace in the fact that the deceased remained a celebrated personality even in death. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .