House commends leadership, honours Fayemi The Sixth Ekiti State House of Assembly yesterday disclosed that it passed 19 bills and 17 resolutions as it marked one legislative year. Also, as part of the activities marking the celebration, the Assembly passed a motion mandating the executive to rename Ekiti State Civic Centre under construction as John Kayode Fayemi Cultural Centre to honour Governor Kayode Fayemi for his unwavering dedication to serve Ekiti people. The motion was moved by lawmaker representing Moba 1, Adeyemi Ajibade and seconded by his colleague from Ikole II, Adeoye Aribasoye and adopted by the whole house. The members also resolved to pass a vote of confidence on the leadership of the House led by the Speaker, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye, for its being exemplary in first legislative year. At a press conference after the plenary presided over by the Chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Yemisi Ayokunle, gave the state assembly a pass mark in its legislative and oversight functions. Top among the bills passed included the 2019 budget, Bill on Gender Violence and Rape, Ekiti State Fiscal Responsibility Bill, Ekiti State Security Network Bill (Amotekun), among others. Ayokunle stated that the already passed and assented bills were those that had smoothened governance for the executive and increase democratic dividends to the people. The lawmaker, who praised Fayemi for putting up structures that facilitate robust executive-legislature smooth operation in the state, describing him as worthy of being honoured, further said: “The motion moved on the renaming of the civil centre after Governor Fayemi speaks for itself.” and once all the lawmakers have agreed through voice-vote, we are going to pass our resolution across to the executive to effect this change. “Governor Fayemi’s impacts have been felt in all the 133 towns in Ekiti. He has done well even in the midst of lean resources and there must be a monument for which he would be remembered in our dear state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .