 Rev. John Joseph Hayab, a Christian religious leader in Nigeria’s Kaduna State, is being honored with Sheikh Khidir Maraya Abdullah, a Muslim cleric, for leading an effort to build “respect across religious divides.” File Photo: Global Peace Foundation<br />  Rev. John Hayab, the Chairman of CAN made the appeal in a statement on Monday. Hayab said that the chapter was sad and upset with the killings and increasing insecurity in the north, especially in Kaduna, Katsina, Sokoto and Borno States. “Our governments must, therefore, live up to their responsibility by tackling the present state of insecurity across the country.’’ He urged them to wake up to their responsibilities and put an end to the criminality that had brought “about misery on the people.’’ Hayab noted that in the last few weeks, hundreds of people had been killed by the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits, who had invaded communities and unleashed mayhem on the people. “People are now living in perpetual fear as they are not safe on the highways and even in their homes. “Rural communities are being invaded by bandits and farmers cannot go to their farms for fear of being killed or abducted for ransom by gunmen,’’ Hayab said. He called on governments to rise to the “declining security situation’’, adding that
protection of lives and property of the citizenry were constitutional responsibility of governments all over the world. The CAN chairman said that there was a need for leaders to take stock of the security situation in the country. “We need to check where we have gone wrong and those things we are doing that we need to do better. “Many lives are being wasted almost on a daily basis by Boko Haram and bandits. People are being abducted and killed by kidnappers because they could not pay the huge ransom demanded by the hoodlums. “For instance in Kaduna State, the security challenges in Chikun, Kajuru, Kauru, Zangon Kataf, Birnin Gwari have continued to be a serious source of worry. “Sadly, people are experiencing these challenges at the time of the increase in hunger, economic hardship and fear of COVID-19. These pains are too much for the citizens to continue to bear,’’ the cleric said. According to him, we all love this country and have always prayed and work to get the best. “Let us not fold our arms and allow evil people to destroy our land.’’ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .