Lil5ive | Image: Niyi Okeowo Emerging music star Anthony Osekaje, better known by his stage name, Lil5ive is poised to carve a space for himself in the vibrant Nigerian music industry. The youngster’s latest track, Omo Ologo (which roughly translates to the Glorious Child), is currently gaining momentum on various music playlists across the nation. In this chat with The Guardian Life, Lil5ive speaks about his life and music. Tell us a bit about yourself and your background
I grew up in Ughelli, Delta state, the first child in a family of four, with no musical background. Growing up wasn’t all that fun, I do have a story to tell just like everyone but it’s been all by God’s grace. I’m versatile across all genres, I can rap and sing effortlessly to a given beat and that’s one unique thing about me. I’ve been making music since I was 9 due to having a studio nearby which gave me access to all the tools I needed. I honed my skills through all these years, everything happened so fast. Through this period I had unofficial singles released but my first official single came with Satiramoni in March 2019. I reached out to Barry Jhay and we did the remix, I followed it up with One Life, then the recent release Omo Ologo. What inspires you to make music?
My upbringing, the things around me, what’s happening in general and things I imagine in my head play a big part in the music I make. Your track “Omo Ologo” is quite a hit, how do you plan on following up that success?
I didn’t really expect the song to turn out well as it did. It had no prior PR plan, I just wanted to put out something because it’s been a while I released a song but I’m glad it’s been well received. And I don’t really like disclosing my plans before letting the public know. I’ve got an EP and a lot of recorded songs to put out because I am tired of listening to them alone. I wanted to put them out but the pandemic affected a lot of things, so before the year runs out, I hope to put them all out and I pray everything gets back to normal. The visuals to Omo Ologo should be out soon, its undergoing final edits, It’s my first music video and I’m so excited about it and it should be out anytime from now. In an industry saturated with new artists, what do you plan on doing differently?
In the industry there’s space for everyone besides I’ve created my own sound with my own listeners, my personality and my sound will distinguish me. Where do you see yourself in the next five years?
Touring the world, spreading good music and positivity, going mainstream. There’s a lot I imagine and I believe they will happen in due time and within five years I should be at the top already, that’s inevitable. Lil5ive | Image: Niyi Okeowo What are your biggest challenges so far?
That has to be balancing my personal life and the music business. I barely record because most of the time I’m trying to make ends meet without affecting my growth. I’m independent and in no rush to get into a record deal that’ll affect my growth, I’m savouring the moment, learning and growing, it’s preparing me for the big stage and it’s understandable. Who would you love to collaborate with before the year runs out?
I like what Mavin’s Rema is doing at the moment; inspiring the younger generation, so it’s definitely got to be him if not Burna Boy which looks far fetched at the moment. If you could change anything about the Nigeria music industry, what would it be?
It definitely has to be the stereotype with emerging artists, nobody regards you if you aren’t making a name for yourself or an A list artiste. Most of the things they get can’t be the same with an emerging artist, besides I just want to make music and let it do its thing. I hate dramas and avoid getting into headlines for the wrong reason, but I hope these changes cause the youths are the future and we need every support we can get to make Africa strong on the global scene. Tell us one interesting fact about yourself, that is not related to your work
I graduated from Delta state university with a degree in business administration, not a lot of people know that, and I play the drums, I used to be part of a choir group in my teens. I also play basketball and in my free time when I’m not recording, I’m probably out catching fun with my friends. I’m also a good swimmer. 