Phillip Blackwell Mugshot Image The Mirror An X Factor contestant is facing jail after admitting to committing a string of rapes over a period of three decades. Phillip Blackwell, who was famed for his bizarre rendition of Spandau Ballet’s Gold on the ITV talent show, faces jail after the sexual offenses, which took place across three different counties. Blackwell, 55, appeared at Warwickshire Crown Court to admit sexual offenses against nine women in Cornwall, the West Midlands and Warwickshire over a 22-year period. In each case, the women were walking alone in the early hours of the morning when they were attacked from behind, before being raped or subjected to other vile sexual offenses according to The Mirror. Four of Blackwell’s victims were attacked in Birmingham, West Mids, in 1997 and 1998. Another was in Nuneaton, Warwickshire, in May 1998. Blackwell attacked another four women in Cornwall between 2005 and 2019. According to the Detective Chief Inspector Caroline Corfield from the Warwickshire Police Major Investigation Unit: Blackwell offended on a huge scale. It is clear he is a dangerous and manipulative sexual predator who has caused untold misery to his victims for the purpose of his own sexual gratification. He poses a serious danger to women. Today, after more than 20 years of offending, Blackwell’s past has caught up with him and now he must face the consequences of his actions. Most of the survivors of his crimes have had to wait many years for justice and will have been forced to relive the horrors Blackwell subjected them to. All the women he has attacked and abused have shown immense courage and I hope they can take some comfort from this conviction. Blackwell pleaded to four counts of rape, one count of attempted rape, five counts of indecent assault and one count of false imprisonment in February. He then appeared via video link at court again in May where he pleaded guilty to a further 20 sexual offenses. These included nine counts of rape, four counts of sexual assault, two counts of assault by penetration, and three counts of voyeurism. He also pleaded guilty to one count of making indecent photographs of a child and a count of voyeurism. Blackwell appeared at court again today where restrictions on reporting court proceedings were lifted, allowing him to be named. He will be sentenced on July 27.