Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu PHOTO: Twitter The Lagos State Government is set to reintegrate victims of the Abule Egba pipeline fire incidence back into the society by end of June 2020 . Reintegration of the displaced 300 persons includes 40 infants and 30 children into the society within the next 29 days, is coming due to recovery from the post disaster trauma caused by the devastating loss of Sunday 19th January, 2020, after certification of their medical state of health and total well being. The reintegration is deemed essential on the heels of their accommodation by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu led administration at the LASEMA relief camp in Igando in the last five months, with full feeding for all residents, complete medical treatment for all, Psychosocial support and counseling for adults with special attention to the children’s needs. Further, artisans within occupants of the Igando Relief Camp were economically engaged during their stay through employment of their skills where needed in the camp, empowerment of unskilled adults through skills acquisition programs, while engaging children of school age with transportation and educational support prior to the COVID-19 lockdown. Reintegration of the 300 victims of the Abule Egba pipeline fire incidence back into the society is coming with a with financial assistance of =N=150, 000 (One Hundred and Fifty Thousand naira) allotted to each individual, and =N= 225, 000 (Two Hundred and Twenty Five Thousand naira) allotted to each household at the end of this month, to help them resettle easily back into the society. The devastated victims of the Sunday 19th January, 2020 fire incident which resulted from activities of pipeline vandals that left the entire community from Pipeline Bus Stop in Ekoro, Abule Egba blighted, are scheduled to vacate the Igando Relief Camp 30th June 2020, will do so, well grounded in COVID-19 safety awareness and protocols. Speaking on the event, the DG/CEO of LASEMA, Dr. Olufemi Damilola Oke-Osanyintolu who stated that the LASEMA Igando camp will be closing effective 30th June 2020, revealed that the vacating residents, NGOs and Lagosians generally, were extremely grateful to the administration of Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwoolu who has been supporting the rehabilitation of the displaced persons in the above incident over the past five months. He stated that”LASEMA has worked tirelessly with multiple agencies to ensure the safety, health and security of the 300 people (including 40 infants and 30 children) since when Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu declared the camp opened with full feeding and accommodation for all residents, transportation and educational support for children of school age prior to the cessation due to COVID-19. Oke–Osanyintolu further said the encampment of the displaced 300 included, “Full medical treatment with secondary care where required and antenatal care for pregnant women in partnership with Alimosho General Hospital, Psychosocial support and counseling, financial assistance to facilitate reentry into society and COVID-19 safety awareness. “We wish to extend special appreciation to the Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu, the Deputy Governor, Mr Obafemi Hamzat, the First Lady, Dr Mrs Sanwoolu and the Wife of the Deputy Governor, Mrs Hamzat for their personal visits which brought cheer and solace to the residents. “In particular, we appreciate all the corporate bodies that supported in cash and in kind, as the agency wishes all the residents every success in the future and urge them to stay safe and alert”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .