Fresh onslaught against cultism and gang violence in Lagos State has led to arrest of no fewer than 185 suspects by special forces attached to Lagos State police command. Two weeks ago, the Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered the deployment of Special Forces from the command’s tactical units to Ikorodu and environs to tackle the menace of cultism and gang violence. It was gathered that operatives of the Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants took the battle to the cultist’s dens at Ikorodu, Ipakodo, Igbogbo, Ibeshe, Shagamu Road, Agbowa and other outskirts of the area. The operation, which was intelligence-driven, targeted top leaders and members of various cults and gangs. Rival cult groups, especially in Ikorodu area, have in the last few weeks engaged themselves in supremacy battle leading to death from both sides. According to Lagos police spokesman, Bala Elkana, “operatives of the Special Strike Force were given clear instructions to reclaim and dominate the public spaces and ensure that no cult groups or gangs operate in any part of Lagos State. The Strike Force has so far arrested 185 notorious cultists and recovered 8 locally made pistols and other dangerous weapons from them. “Suspects arrested confessed to belonging to Eiye, Aiye, KK, Buccaneers, Vikings confraternities, among others. One Gbadamosi Mohammed, 30, suspected to be among the cultists who killed one Madariola Sunday at Ibeshe on May 21, 2020, was among the suspects arrested. “Also arrested are Onibudo Afeex, Habeeb Isa, Felix Igwoke, Taiwo Iyanu at Femi Taiwo Street, Ikorodu. They were arrested in an uncompleted building holding cult meeting. One Adeoye Daya 25, a hitman of Aiye confraternity was arrested at Ikorodu garage with one locally made short gun and rounds of live cartridges. “One Shodeinde Tosin, a hitman of Eiye confraternity in Igbogbo was also arrested with a locally made short gun. The suspects would be charged to Court”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .