 Youth and Sports Minister, Sunday Dare (right) and former Director General of National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), Mallam Nasir Danladi Bako, during the latter’s visit to the minister in Abuja.  The Abuja Stadium was on Friday rechristened Moshood Abiola National Stadium, and it is hoped that the edifice would be made available during international games, together with other national stadia across the country also marked for renovation by the sports ministry. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Ugbade stated that the foresight of the minister as regards the national stadia, which have been left unused, is a welcome development and capable of launching the nation back to its glory. “Dare has done a great job since he was appointed Sports Minister considering his vision and numerous plans for sports development in the country. “ For the first time we have a minister who has brought succour to the families of late Internationals, who served the country well before their demise,” he said, adding that what he is doing now would only be appreciated in years to come. “It is good we return to playing our International matches at the national stadia for identity. These stadia can also serve as the home ground for clubs involved in the Confederation of African Football (CAF) competitions because of the standard of the facilities. “Although, I know that some players shy away from playing their games at the National Stadium due to the pressure arising from the huge crowd in attendance during matches, especially when fans expect their national team to win convincingly. “But the fear of the players should not deny us the atmosphere, fun and passion during games where the fans expect a win for pride and glory. I think bringing back the memory of the past is what the Sports Minister is trying to do in our sporting lives. We cannot afford to wait again before the days of glory of Nigerian sports is restored,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .