Beyonce and Breonna Taylor Multiple award-winning songstress and actress Beyonce in a public letter has demanded justice for Breonna Taylor who was shot dead in her home by police officers. The shooting that ended Taylor’s life happened in Lousiville on March 13 when the police shot her eight times. Lending her voice and platform to the Black Lives Matter movement, Beyonce wrote to the attorney general Daniel Cameron. The 38-year-old entertainer made the letter public on her website as she asked the attorney to to “demonstrate the value of a Black woman’s life”. The “Halo” crooner urged the attorney to bring criminal charges against the officers involved and ensure that the investigation was carried out with transparency. Furthermore, the mother of three asked for the LMPD to look into the practices which have resulted in the deaths of unarmed black citizens. Beyonce | HBCU Buzz The letter read: “It has now been over three months since members of the Louisville Metro Police Department killed Breonna Taylor. Plainclothes officers with a “no-knock” warrant forced their way into her apartment, where she was asleep and unarmed. “Moments later, the officers fired over twenty shots into Breonna Taylor’s home striking her at least eight times. While “Breonna’s Law” passed in Louisville and federal legislation has been introduced that will also ban no-knock warrants, these small steps in the right direction are painful reminders that there has still been no justice for Breonna Taylor or her family. “Three months have passed – and the LMPD’s investigations have created more questions than answers. Their incident report states that Ms. Taylor suffered no injuries – yet we know she was shot at least eight times. The LMPD officers claim they announced themselves before forcing their way into Ms. Taylor’s apartment but her boyfriend who was with her, as well as several neighbours, all say that this is untrue. “Three months have passed – and zero arrest have been made, and no officers have been fired. The LMPD’s investigation was turned over to your office and yet all of the officers involved in the shooting remain employed by the LMPD. Sgt. Jonathan Mattingly and Officers Myles Cosgrove and Brett Hankison must be held accountable for their actions. “Three months have passed – and Breonna Taylor’s family still waits for justice. Ms Taylor’s family has not been able to take time to process and grieve. Instead, they have been working tirelessly to rally the support of friends, community, and the country to obtain justice for Breonna.” Breonna Taylor | The Grio Urging the attorney general to break the pattern of tragedy involving black people, Beyonce explained: “Don’t let this case fall into the pattern of no action after a terrible tragedy. With every death of a Black person at the hands of the police, there are two real tragedies: the death itself, and the inaction and delays that follow it. “This is your chance to end that pattern. Take swift and decisive action in charging the officers. The next months cannot look like the last three.”