It is a case of different strokes for the two first-term governors in the North Central states of Nassarawa and Kwara, Mr. Abdullahi Sule and AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq respectively, as they mark their first year in office today May 29, 2020.
 
While it was a smooth transition in Nassarawa State between Sule and his predecessor Tanko Almakura of the same party in what was continuity of governance for the All Progressives Congress (APC), in Kwara State, it was a thug of war between the then ruling party Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and APC as the former lost the election to the latter party in a keenly contested election and acrimonious relationship.
 
The outcome of the 2019 governorship election in Kwara was a paradigm shift as political permutations of some pundits failed to materialise. The Saraki dynasty that had held sway in the political leadership of Kwara finally lost its grip as the immediate past Senate President and a two-term governor of the state Bukola Saraki bowed to defeat. This was after outwitting APC’s national leadership at the centre to emerge Senate President and successfully holding to that office in spite of persecution. AbdulRazaq won Kwara election riding on the mantra of Otoge, which means ‘enough is enough’, as the slogan deployed by citizens in a mass movement against the influence of the entrenched political interests of Kwara ahead of the 2019 general elections.
 
The supporters of the governor say emphatically that he has rescued the state that once tottered on the brink of collapse. In just 12 months down the road, the Otoge leader has successfully changed the narrative in Kwara. One example they point at is the payment of relevant counterpart funds, which has brought back development partners, and which has taken the state off Universal Basic Education Commission’s (UBEC) blacklist.
 
This is one of the ways they believe AbdulRazaq has stabilised and repositioned the state for growth. In the health sector, the administration began with injecting N232m to tackle malaria, maternal death, and malnutrition.
 
A recent statement from the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye said, “On January 19, 2019, Kwara embarrassed Nigeria with the recording of Africa’s first vaccine-derived polio case. To put a stop, the new government returned routine polio vaccination across the state after many years.  The administration, they also said, launched a free health insurance scheme for 10,000 indigent Kwara people. The new administration, many people believe, is giving hope to the disadvantaged, empowering local artisans, redistributing wealth, and calling global attention to Kwara with his bold enlistment of women in the decision-making process in line with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 5 — a practical way to inspire the girl-child to a new height.
 
However, what was perceived to be political vendetta set AbdulRazaq’s administration on a collision course early in its life with the powerful Saraki family and which saw the people rising up to resist him. The demolition of the Ile-Arugbo belonging to old Senator Olusola Saraki was perceived as vendetta pushed too far.
 
But the government had claimed that where the Ile-Arugbo was built belongs to the state. Though the action was targeted at the former Senate President, it did not go down well with his sister Gbemisola Saraki and Minister of State for Transport, even though she is a core APC stalwart. But as they say, blood is thicker than water. The place had served as a rallying point for the Sarakis where the needs of the community were met.  On infrastructure, he completed most of the road construction projects started by the former administration. Government within the period under review awarded the contract for the road linking the highway to Farin Ruwa hydropower/waterfall and tourist site in Wamba LGA. Installation and provision of 2km solar-powered streetlights in each of the 13 local government councils as well as the construction of classroom blocks with solar-powered borehole and toilet facilities in the local governments across the state. On Agriculture, Sule has been exploring avenues to ensure that farmers in the state access available agro-financing schemes and institutions willing to venture into agriculture businesses. The state government is already partnering with the Federal Government on agric-loan of N1.5 billion to empower the youths who are now undergoing training in order to access the facility on the single-digit interest rate. Similarly, Sule has maintained that “his administration would ensure prompt distribution of farm inputs such as fertilizer, improved seeds and seedlings as well as agrochemicals to farmers”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .