Underwriting firms in Nigeria’s insurance industry have begun to invest more in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) especially in this period of the coronavirus pandemic. The move is not only to give back to the society where they derive their profits from, but also to boost governments’ efforts at all levels to stem the spread of virus in communities. CSR is the commitment of companies to provide resources and support activities focused on enhancing economic and social development, while improving the living condition of the indigents and the society at large without seeking any commensurate monetary benefits. The basic objective of CSR in today’s world is to maximise organisations overall impact on the society and stakeholders. Among the few operators leading the pack are: AllCO Insurance Plc, Mutual Benefits, Linkage Assurance, Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc, NICON Insurance Limited, FBNInsurance, and Anchor Insurance Company Limited. Speaking with The Guardian, over the weekend, the Head, Strategic Marketing and Communication AllCO Insurance Plc, Segun Olalandu, said the underwriter has taken CSR as a key driver of the economy. To this end, he said AIICO donated some Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) as part of its CSR programme to the Nigerian Red Cross, Yaba, last week, to help Nigerians protect themselves against the spread of the pandemic in the communities. Already, stakeholders have commended the initiative, saying it is very timely, coming at a time of restricted movement put in place by the Federal Government to check the spread of COVID-19. The Managing Director, Sunu Assurance Plc, Samuel Oghenebrume Ogbodu, commended the deliberate efforts made by the doctors and other healthcare workers in Nigeria and around the world to combat the outbreak and curtail its spread. He told The Guardian that “We share the view that the world needs to come together to provide a stronger support for these men and women who have chosen to risk their lives to serve their countries.” Also, the Executive Director, Marketing and Brand Operations, NICON Insurance, Debo Oladejo, also commended all those on the frontline in the fight against the pandemic. He told The Guardian that “In the face of the rising number of cases in the country, we cannot but commend the concerted efforts of the National Emergency Operations Centre led by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control as well as various state governments, who have continued to coordinate response activities and strengthen preparedness capacity across the country. We remain irrevocably committed towards efforts to eradicate this pandemic as quickly as possible.” Also commenting, Professor of Surgery and Provost of the College of Medicine, and Consultant Urologist at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oluwabunmi Olapade-Olaopa, stated: “The interventions by insurance operators are very timely, and addresses the core of what is needed at this time to keep the fight going, and enable care for the sick and research on the disease. We are extremely grateful for the insurer for its impactful support and its commitment towards better healthcare in Nigeria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .