APC says allegations frivolous, means of distraction
The People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State Chapter, has asked the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to disqualify the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Governor Sanwo-Olu from the 2023 election. The PDP accused the APC-led administration in the state of breaching the provisions of the Electoral Act on electioneering campaigns by campaigning for the re-election of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the 2023 governorship election in the state. The Publicity Secretary of the party, Taofik Gani, who levelled the accusation at the weekend, said: “The APC has commenced deliberate public announcements, jingles, newspaper adverts directly and indirectly sponsored by the governor, his supporters, groups and the APC announcing Sanwo-Olu as a performer-governor within his first year in office that should be supported for re-election. “For clarity, the sponsored public announcements, jingles and newspaper adverts are clearly calling on the electorate to re-elect Sanwo-Olu and the APC on the basis of their perceived performances within first year. These jingles and other announcements abound. We demand that the governor and the APC must be disqualified from contesting the governorship election in 2023.” However, the APC in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo, described the claims as tantrums and a means to distract Sanwo-Olu’s administration. He added that the rising profile of Sanwo-Olu should give the moribund opposition party headache, especially the Lagos State government internationally-acknowledged response to the COVID 19 pandemic. “The governor has not only provided the desired leadership at an unprecedentedly trying time, he has become a reference point for responsive and responsible governance. It is also worthy of note that other important sectors have not suffered neglect as a result of the pandemic challenges. We need to emphasise that the commencement of 2023 elections only exists in the warped, mischievous and idle imagination of the opposition PDP. We regard the press statement by the PDP as their usual tantrums, distractive politics and sound and fury meaning nothing. We will not dignify such unsubstantiated issues any more with a response as a serious party that is busy with meeting the needs of our people.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .