 T.B. Joshua  Redfield, who spoke during a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing, said America was likely going to spend about $7 trillion “because of one little virus.” “We’ve all done the best that we can do to tackle this virus,” he added, confessing that coronavirus had humbled the entire nation. According to a statement, Redfield’s words are in precise correlation with the prophetic declaration of Prophet T.B. Joshua almost a decade earlier. On October 16, 2011, Joshua prophesied about a looming crisis that would bring every nation “on their knees.” “Everyone will be humbled,” he explained. “There is something God wants to achieve concerning this – God wants to achieve humility to the core. He wants everyone to be on their knees, every nation to be on their knees. After that, the solution will come.” Three years earlier, on December 28, 2008, Joshua had warned in a ‘long-term’ prophecy about a worldwide ‘economic crisis’ and called on countries who “rely on mineral resources like oil” to “quickly look beyond oil”. “It’s coming and it’s everywhere. You will be forced to be humble,” he clearly stated, calling on people to prepare for such a time. On the eve of 2020, Joshua declared it “the year of humility”, stressing that God would “humble us with our challenges”. “This year will be a year of humility. This year, the Lord will humble us with our challenges. Challenges can be affliction…Let us move closer to God,” he stated on December 28, 2019, after an extensive time of prayer at an undisclosed ‘prayer mountain’. Last month, the Director-General of the World Health Organisation (WHO), Dr. Tedros Ghebreysus, equally echoed T.B. Joshua’s prophecy, stating that the coronavirus pandemic was teaching the world humility. “If this virus is teaching us anything, it’s humility. Time for humility. For all the economic, military and technological might of nations, we have been humbled by this very small microbe,” the former Ethiopian Minister of Health said while addressing the World Health Assembly. Similarly, U.S.A Chief Justice John Roberts told graduating seniors at his son’s high school last month that the coronavirus had “pierced our illusion of certainty and control” and turned the world upside down. “Humility. The pandemic should teach us at least that,” Roberts said in a seven-minute video message posted on the website of the Westminster School in Simsbury, Connecticut, where his son, Jack, is a senior. A video recounting the statements of these world figures was published to the YouTube channel of Emmanuel TV, which has nearly 1.7 million subscribers and 600 million views. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .