There are growing concerns about the safety and whereabouts of Olorunmi Comfort Anjorin, a missing young lady and student of Kingsley College of Education in Kwara State. She has not been sighted by anyone since June 9, this year. Her ordeals started when some unknown armed men accompanied by someone from the neighborhood, stormed her village, Takete-Ide, in Mopa-Amuro Local Government Area of Kogi State, on the said date. After a few enquiries, she was located and forcefully whisked away to a yet-to-be identified destination, reports said. It was gathered that she resisted the command to enter into the vehicle, claiming not to know the men but she complied after a few slaps. Some persons in the area were attracted to the scene. Promptly, they mobilised for her possible rescue. However, the intervention proved abortive as the assailants brought out their arms and claimed to be detectives who were on an official assignment to effect the arrest. Without much ado, they sped away with the young lady. The ordeal of Anjorin, said to be an orphan, has been a source of worry to friends, family members and the entire community. They have organised visits to all police stations in the area. They have also taken their search to Lokoja, the state capital and far away Kwara State, but it had yielded no result. There are, however, conflicting reports about her travails. While some in the community viewed that her abductors were criminals, others claimed her arrest was in connection to a stolen phone. It is suspected that the detectives tracked the number of one of her regular callers. She eventually led the men to locate and arrest the person at Effo, a nearby community. “If she was kidnapped, the kidnappers would have contacted the family. We have been going from one police station to another to look for her. Starting from the police in our community, down to Lokoja and Ilorin, we have no clue of her whereabouts. “We want the police and the government to help us in locating her. We have been in distress since her disappearance,” Bolu, one of her brothers, told journalists in Lokoja yesterday. Another source in the community, who preferred to be unnamed, expressed worry about the girl’s safety. “With the rising wave of rape and other violent assault against women, I just pray she has not fallen into wrong hands. If truly she was arrested by real detectives, I expect them to have made contacts.” The source appealed to the security agencies to come to the aid of the family in finding the 20-year-old girl.
When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Kogi State command, William Aya, said he was yet to be briefed about the incident by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Mopa/Amuro council area.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .