 Image of a man’s hands in a jail cell. PHOTO: Shutterstock<br />  The Hungarian is the wife of Mr Gildas Tohouo-Tohouo, the Managing Director of Maersk Nigeria Ltd. Goke, 33, of No. 22, Elepe St., Ikorodu and Adeyinka, 27, of No.12, Odunlami St., Shomolu respectively, were arraigned before Justice Modupe Nico-Clay by the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. The defendants are standing trial on an eight-count charge bordering on conspiracy, murder, armed robbery and rape. They, however, pleaded not guilty to all the counts. Justice Nico-Clay remanded the defendants after taking their pleas and adjourned the case until June 30, for trial. Earlier, the Lagos State Prosecutor, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo, who is the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, had told the court that the defendants conspired and committed the offences on Dec. 8, 2019, at 7:30 p.m., at Flat 7A, No.1, Lugard Avenue, Ikoyi, Lagos. Onigbanjo (SAN) said the defendants unlawfully had sexual intercourse with their victim, Bernadetta Tohouo-Tohouo, then killed her and attempted to kill her husband, Gildas Tohouo-Tohouo. The prosecutor said that the defendants killed Bernadetta by suffocating her to death with a small pillow after raping her. Onigbanjo said that the duo also attempted to kill the victim’s husband, Gildas, by stabbing him severally on the neck, head and back with a knife and dagger. According to the prosecutor, the defendants also robbed the victims of their belongings that included foreign currencies. He said that others items stolen are: two iPhones, two bottles of wine, two wedding rings and one engagement ring. According to him, the offences contravened Sections 173, 233, 230, 299, 297(2) (a) and 411, of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The first defendant, Goke, was represented by a counsel, Mr A.O. Odusanya, from the Office of the Public Defender (OPD), while Mrs L.Y. Salau and I. T. Akingbade, from Legal Aid Council, appeared for the second defendant, Adeyinka. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .