Harvey Weinstein Harvey Weinstein has been reported to suffer from an acute genital infection known as Fournier’s gangrene. Comments about the former movie mogul’s ‘deformed’ genitalia had first been put to public attention during his rape trial earlier this year. This was made public by some of Weinstein’s accusers. Accuser Jessica Mann said she had thought Weinstein could be ‘intersex’ when she saw his naked body. She said the abnormality left him scarred and ‘without’ testes. In her words: The first time I saw him fully naked, I felt, I thought he was deformed and intersex. He has extreme scarring that I didn’t know if maybe he was a burn victim. He does not have testicles and it appears like he has a vagina. Subsequently, during the trial, photos of Weinstein were shown to the jury rather than on a large screen so as not to humiliate the defendant. According to a report by The Mirror, Harvey was struck by Fournier’s Gangrene back in the 90s. The condition is described as an acute infection of the genital region that diabetics and middle-aged men are prone to. Symptoms of this include pain and swelling in the genital area, an unpleasant odour coming from the skin tissue, and a crackling sound when touching the affected area. It’s claimed that during Christmas in 1999, Weinstein had to be transported out of St Barts to receive medical attention for his problems. In February this year, Weinstein was sentenced to 23 years behind bars. The jury at his trial found Weinstein guilty of two counts for third-degree rape and criminal sexual assault after 80 women to step forward in a #metoo movement The jury declined to convict a charge of predatory sexual assault, the maximum penalty for which was a life sentence. The allegations sparked the #MeToo social media campaign and many similar sexual abuse allegations against and dismissals of powerful men around the world; this phenomenon is referred to as the “Weinstein effect”. In October 2017, following the allegations, Weinstein was dismissed from his company and expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.