Court warns DPR, minister over the auction Unlike the situation with marginal fields, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has said it would not schedule bid rounds for Oil Mining Licences (OMLs) and Oil Production Licences (OPLs) in the absence of a clear framework like the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB).
  
Furthermore, hopes of the law being signed next month may have to wait further, owing to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on major activities surrounding the bill. This comes as the Federal High Court, Lagos yesterday warned the Minister of Petroleum Resources and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) not to overreach its order restraining them from taking any step on revoking the Ororo Marginal Field in OML 95 pending a suit challenging its status. Justice Muslim Hassan gave the warning after being informed that the DPR was allegedly advertising a bidding process for the facility, which may jeopardise the interest of the plaintiff, Owena Oil and Gas Limited. The judge renewed its order, asking the government to maintain the status quo until the determination of the motion on notice. Any breach, he added, would be “dealt with.” The court on May 27 this year granted the order of interim injunction against the respondents following a May 19 motion ex parte filed by the applicant. Upon resumption of proceedings yesterday, the plaintiff’s counsel Mr. Kemi Pinehiro (SAN), informed the judge that despite the order, the DPR published an advertorial requesting for bids for the marginal field(s) and then sought the court’s protection.
  
However, the NNPC has warned oil firms that cannot operate under a $10 per barrel production regime already set for 2021 to seek ways out of the industry.
   
With 57 marginal fields being auctioned by the DPR, many of the industry players, who spoke with The Guardian, feared that Nigeria’s obsolete regulations, especially the non-passage of the PIB, were worsening transparency and fostering uncertainties.  This, he said, has made the corporation to have a rethink to insist on cutting down the cost of production, as there are a lot of fraudulent activities going on in the oil and gas industry.
  
He said the challenges of COVID-19 made it possible for NNPC to take a look at some services they can discard, adding that it was time to infuse cost discipline, shun operational inefficiency, and refocus only on projects that are revenue-driven.
 
NAPE President, Alex Nachi Tarka, commended Kyari for his efforts in driving reforms in the sector and assured operators that the Association will continue to drive initiatives that will aid the growth of the sector. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .