Bollywood Star Sushant Singh Rajput Dies At 34 Image The August Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput has been found dead at the age of 34 and the Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Pranay Ashok has said they are investigating an alleged suicide according to The Mirror. The popular film and TV actor Rajput was best known for his role as former Indian cricket team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni in biopic MS Dhoni: The Untold Story. He also starred in hit films Kedarnath and Chhichhore and made his final screen appearance in Netflix thriller Drive. The Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his sadness about the death of the actor while saying how inspiring the star was before his death. He wrote: Sushant Singh Rajput, a bright young actor gone too soon. He excelled on TV and in films. His rise in the world of entertainment inspired many and he leaves behind several memorable performances. Shocked by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and fans. Om Shanti. Rajput’s death comes five days after the death of his former manager Disha Salian, who died after falling from the 14th floor of a building in Mumbai on June 9. Also, Indian cricketer, Kiran Moore has paid tribute to the dead actor. Kiran trained the actor for his role in MS Dhoni; The Untold Story. He tweeted: I don’t know how I or anyone who knows him will be able to recover from this shock, gone too soon my friend. Rajput was an Indian actor, dancer, entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He started his career with television serials. His debut show was Star Plus’s romantic drama Kis Desh Mein Hai Meraa Dil in 2008, followed by an award-winning performance in Zee TV’s popular soap opera Pavitra Rishta from 2009 to 2011. Rajput made his film debut in the buddy drama Kai Po Che! (2013), for which he received a nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut. He then starred in the romantic comedy Shuddh Desi Romance in 2013 and as the titular detective in the action thriller Detective Byomkesh Bakshy in 2015. Apart from entertainment, he was also was actively involved in various programmes like Sushant4Education as a part of efforts to help young students.