 Akintoye  It, therefore, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to call the Miyetti Allah to order to demonstrate that he is genuinely interested in the peace and unity of Nigeria and use his constitutional powers to stop any deviant fanning the embers of disunity in the country. Director of Communications, YWC, Moses Jolayemi, in a statement yesterday, said: “We have waited patiently in the last few days for a retraction of the highly explosive and inflammatory statement; that he was misquoted, as it’s often the case when people in public positions see the implications of what they said at the heat of the moment. “Unfortunately, none of such has come. Having made a similar pronouncement almost exactly one year ago, it is becoming clearer that the attack dog is indeed working on a carefully crafted script. It goes without saying that his masters are determined and undaunted in their evil plot to plunge the country into a needless war. “Ordinarily, the YWC would not respond to such imbecilities but considering the fact that the fellow in question may not be acting alone, we have decided to send him back to his masters that no part of Yoruba land will be ceded to any Fulani marauder under any guise and for any reason.” The Yoruba nation, according to Jolayemi, will, however, resist every attempt by a small, ignoble clique of feudal jingoists to foist themselves on the rest of the country or annex the South-West. If other tribes so desire, they can allow their inheritance and indeed their ancestry to be obliterated by these elements that are clandestinely carrying out a carefully mapped ethnic cleansing agenda. “It is curious that the Federal Government has not made any categorical statement denouncing such reckless and irresponsible statement, even when sister organisations like The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association (MACBAN) have strongly condemned the recent outburst, same way they reacted to similar ones in the past,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .