CRPP tasks Sanwo-Olu on infrastructure development, others
All political groups within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos have been dissolved. The Mandate Group and the Justice Group, the two of the most powerful groups, will no longer exist. This decision was taken at the Governor’s Advisory Committee meeting presided over by former governor of the state and National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, held yesterday at his residence on Bourdillon Road, Ikoyi. In a communiqué yesterday after the meeting, the leaders said it was unequivocally resolved that all factions, including JG and MG, are inimical to party’s unity and are hereby permanently disbanded and prohibited within the party. “Party members should no longer make use of these factions or their names with regard to future party business and activities.   To continue to hold meetings in the name of these groups or to continue to promote such associations will amount to a violation of this resolution. “The only permitted use of the names will be limited to historic references. Any violation of this decision is subject to party discipline, including suspension and expulsion. This prohibition extends solely to official party business. We are in no way trying to abridge anyone’s constitutional rights to free speech or assembly. The party chairman is hereby tasked with promulgating more detailed regulations with regard to prohibited and permissible activities for sub-party groupings.” In another development, the Conference of Registered Political Parties (CRPP) has lauded Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on his landmark achievements . It also urged the governor to boost the educational sector with a view to bringing sanity into number of pupils being taught in a class. The CRPP Chairman, Taiwo Fatai, who stated this during a chat with newsmen in Ikeja, Lagos, also commended the governor for his health and housing programmes, among others. He, however, admonished him to address the issue of cultism by inviting experts, traditional rulers, as well as religious leaders, to nib the activities of cult members in the bud. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .