L-R Hon Tammy Danagogo, Secretary to Rivers State Government; Mr Emmanuel Tobi and Mr Joshua Mitchell Community Affairs Manager Eroton and Mr Emmanuel Thompson, Director of Operations Eroton Exploration and Production during the donation of Medical and other Equipments to the State government yesterday. Contrary to earlier reservations on responses by companies and organizations on donations to support the fight against coronavirus pandemic in Rivers State, the state government yesterday declared that the overall commitment and donations by companies have been ‘satisfactory’. The Secretary to the State Government and Chairman of the State Committee on Palliative, Dr Tammy Danagogo, stated this at the Committees’ warehouse yesterday in PortHarcourt while receiving oxygen concentrators, a bus and other medical materials from the management of Eroton Exploration and Production Company Limited in partnership with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Danagogo said, “Since this Covid-19 pandemic started, a lot of well-meaning companies and corporate entities have been giving their little support here and there. It is what every well-meaning individual and corporate citizens is doing to support the efforts of the government at ensuring that the people particularly the less privileged are provided for especially at a time we are telling them not to engage in their regular and normal lifestyles”. ” The support from the companies have been satisfactory. It is excellent, they trying but I think they can do more,it is one of the kind gestures and we deeply appreciate the fact that today Eroton has also put its name in the list of those who mean well for the downtrodden in our state. He added, “This is one period we know those who stand with us and those who do not stand with us. It is said that it is the time of crisis, the times of need that you know your friends. The governor will be adequately informed and once this whole pandemic gives us some breathing space, we will identify and appreciate every corporate citizen that has identified with the people of Rivers State at this time and certainly Eroton will be part of those that the state government will be thanking.” Speaking also, Operations Manager of Eroton, Mr Emmanuel Thompson, said the aim of donating medical materials was to support the State government curb the dreaded disease and enable the people return to normal life soon. He, however, appealed for proper utilization of the materials in fighting COVID-19 pandemic in the State. He said, “We are giving out the bus and some medical materials to the Rivers State Government as part of our support to the State to help in fighting Covid-19 pandemic. “This is just one of the things we have done in supporting the government. We have oxygen concentrators and 6000 surgical masks. the disease affects everybody and whoever is going to end up with the disease, use this material to make sure they get well”. “The bus is to be used by the Rivers State Ministry of Health in confronting this pandemic. We know the government will use it so that the people, who actually need it benefits from it. We have not really had any case in our organisation. We are also working with the government and other agencies ” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .