 Players going through a practical session during the recent FC Bulmaro’s free football clinic at St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos.  Simeon participated in the free football clinic conducted by the technical team of the FC Bulmaro in partnership with the Okakuro Group at St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos in February. Since then, Simeon, who played for the Wazobia team against the World XI, has been in the club’s radar. Simeon scored 352 points in this year’s JAMB to rank among the top 10 out of the 1.9 million candidates that wrote the examination. In a letter sent to Okakuro Group International Nigeria, a delighted Rev. Fr. Maduabuchi Leo Muoneme, the school administrator, praised the group for encouraging and sponsoring sportsmen to academic excellence. The administrator said the Wazobia striker’s excellent academic performance clearly represents the maxim: Mes sana in corpore sano, which translates to a sound mind in a sound body. “This is against the conception of many parents that participating in any form of sports is a distraction that will affect the child’s performance. “The child is a great striker in the school. He is clearly an all rounded student, an excellent leader, and he has broken the record against that stereotype that thinks sports and academics are mutually exclusive. “Imagine that among 1.9 million candidates, he is among the top ten. He wants to study Mechanical Engineering and you and I know that it is not a cheap course by any means,” Fr. Muoneme stressed. Buttressing his point that educated sportsmen are better equipped for success, Rev. Muoneme said the “few members of the national team that won the African Cup of Nations in 1980, for the first time, who are still very relevant and are doing well, are the ones who had good education like Adokie of Rivers State and Odegbami of Ogun State. “Excellent leaders are great sports men and women. This experience gives them edge above their peers when it comes to performance be it academic or otherwise,” he emphasised. Also speaking on Simeon’s performance, Okakuro Group’s Nigerian representative, Ms. Idemabasi Mkpokporo, pledged her organisation’s continued support for sports and academic development in the country. She said, “We are overwhelmed, encouraged and highly motivated to contribute more in our little ways to ensure young people with sport talent are given the necessary encouragement and support.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .