While residents are still grappling with rape cases and murder cases in Ibadan, another tragedy struck in the city as a 40-year-old man, Lanre Kazeem, committed suicide early yesterday by hanging himself in his house, located at Eyin Grammar School, Molete area. It was gathered that Kazeem lived in a rented house and worked in a private palm kernel company around Soka, Ibadan, while he also had no known relatives or friends all through his one-year stay in the area. The Oyo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, who confirmed the incident, disclosed that the body had been deposited at Adeoyo State Hospital’s mortuary. Fadeyi said: “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Sanyo division, has visited the area to see what happened. Investigation has commenced on the matter to know what actually happened”. Some residents of the area told newsmen that the deceased hailed from Ogun State and left no suicide note behind to explain the cause of his action, while some of his neighbours claimed the deceased had been sick for close to two weeks without any medical care. Also speaking on the incident, the chairman, Eyin Grammar Landlords’ Association, Alhaji Lateef Adegoke, said the incident was reported to him and the police had taken the body to the mortuary. Meanwhile, the management of Kwara State University (KWASU), Malete, Ilorin, has condoled with the family of one of its students, Fatima Abdullah, who reportedly committed suicide in Abuja on June 18. This was contained in a statement issued by AbdulRazaq Sanni, the Director, University Relations, yesterday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported that Fatima, a 300-Level student in the Faculty of Law, committed suicide at her home in Abuja. KWASU Vice-Chancellor, Professor Muhammed Akanbi, extended condolences to her family. While sympathising with family over the loss, Akanbi enjoined parents and guardians to be sensitive to their children and wards’ unusual behaviour, especially when they notice withdrawal syndrome in their attitude. Also at the weekend, a 28-year-old man, identified simply as Suga, committed suicide in Bayelsa State. Suga, who hailed from Nembe Local Government Area of the state, poisoned himself with a substance suspected to be insecticide after using his boss’ money worth N150,000 to play Bet9ja virtual games. A source, who craved anonymity, said Suga used to run a Bet9ja shop for his unnamed boss in Bassambiri Nembe area of the state. The source said the money the deceased used to play the virtual bets was meant for the day’s work. The source stated: “Suga, not knowing how to explain the situation to his boss, made him to take his own life.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .