Concerns as four senators died within six months
The senator representing Lagos East Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Adebayo Sikiru Osinowo, is dead. Osinowo, popularly known as Pepperito in the state political circle, died at the First Cardiologist Hospital, Lagos, after a brief illness. Details of the cause of his death as at the time of filing this report were still unknown. Osinowo succeeded two-term Senator Gbenga Ashafa at the Senate on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Spokesman of the APC in Lagos State, Seye Oladejo, who confirmed the death of the senator, said: “It is unfortunate. He was such a good guy. We commiserate with our National Leader, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu, his immediate family and the entire Lagos State APC on this shocking loss. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari, in his deepest condolences to the family of Osinowo and the Senate, said that the senator’s devotion to national development, as well as insightful contributions at the floor of the Senate would be fondly remembered and missed. Also, Tinubu, who expressed regret over the death of Osinowo, describing it as “shocking loss,” said that the late senator’s contributions to the return of democracy were significant and enduring. “The sudden, unexpected passing of Senator Bayo Osinowo has deeply hurt me and Lagosians. He was more than a close friend and political associate. Over the years, he became like a family member and brother in so many ways. “Bayo and I have come a long way, dating back to our days in the pro-democracy struggles. We both enlisted in the Social Democratic Party where he served so well as the Youth Chairman of that party during the Third Republic and later in the Alliance for Democracy in 1998 after the restoration of democracy. Bayo’s contributions to the return of democracy were significant and enduring.” Also reacting to the news of his death, a one-time councillor in Kosofe Local Council, Adedayo Lawal, described  Osinowo as a philanthropist that extended his hand of support across the whole state. However, the death of Osinowo has generated concerns among lawmakers in the upper chamber. With his death, the Senate has recorded a total of four deaths in the last six months. A serving senator from the South-West, who confirmed the death of Osinowo, said his colleagues were very uncomfortable with the rate of deaths in the Senate. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .