My supporters ganging up against me, says Bauchi 
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won all positions in the council election conducted by the Benue State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC) in the state last Saturday. Five political parties – PDP, African Action Congress (AAC), All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Labour Party (LP) and Social Democratic Party (SDP) – participated in the election. But the All Progressives Congress (APC), which is holding sway at the federal level, boycotted the election. “This is to inform the general public that the APC is not party to the kangaroo council election, which is already programmed to handpick and declare all PDP candidates winners,” APC had stated. The chairmanship position was contested in only five out of the 23 councils in Benue, while the remaining 18 were left unopposed. Local government areas that the election was contested included Konshisha, Obi, Okpokwu, Ohimini and Oturkpo. Declaring the result yesterday in Makurdi, Chairman of BSIEC, Dr. Tersoo Loko, announced that the PDP also cleared all the 276 councillorship positions in the state. He commended the security agencies, journalists, leaders of political parties that participated in the polls and other stakeholders for their support that led to the success election, which he described as “transparent, free and fair.” Loko noted that the ballot was the most peaceful ever conducted in the history of Benue. He announced that the chairmen and councillors would be issued certificates of return today. Meanwhile, after one year as a governor of Bauchi State, Bala Mohammed has said that those that worked hard for him to emerge are currently ganging up against him. Mohammed said this over the weekend in Bauchi during a media chat to mark his first year in office. He, however, did not disclose those involved, even as he said he had no political godfather. “I have faced opposition from the Federal Government. Even my traducers, I don’t join issues with them; I know some of them, even by political permutations. “Even now, I am suffering from a gang-up. Gang-up by people that I have worked with to come to this level. It is coming because we ignore it. “Somebody like me that doesn’t have a godfather, my godfather had abandoned me. My only godfather, if there is any, was Isa Yuguda; but we fell out because I became minister, I have respect for him.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .