Depending on which website you read, Nigeria’s Wilfred Ndidi is the most sought after midfielder in world football. Reports in various sites have Ndidi’s agents discussing terms for a transfer with different football clubs, including Real Madrid, Arsenal, Chelsea, Manchester United, Paris St. Germain and Tottenham. Yesterday, africanfootball.com quoted Todofichajes as claiming that Real Madrid has joined the race to sign the Leicester City midfielder, who is reportedly already talking with officials of Arsenal. According to the report, Ndidi, who is fast establishing himself as one of the best midfielders in the English Premier League, has not gone unnoticed with Chelsea, Manchester United and Paris Saint-Germain also having previously been linked with the 23-year-old. The report said with a transfer value of around €36 million, Leicester would make a substantial profit if they decide to sell the Super Eagles midfielder who has been capped 34 times by his country.
Sport Leicestermercury.co.uk is not left out as it reports that Chelsea fans are upbeat about the chances of their signing Ndidi, who is a reported transfer target for Frank Lampard. It adds that reports in Spain claimed that Ndidi is on the transfer shortlist of the Stamford Bridge side, while La Liga giants Real Madrid have also been credited with an interest. It said that Ndidi, who is valued at £40 million according to reports, has been identified as a possible replacement for N’Golo Kante who made a £35m transfer to Chelsea in 2016. The report quotes one Chelsea fan as describing Ndidi as “everything Chelsea are missing in midfield. He’s an aggressor, good in the air and can win the ball at will. Would be an impressive signing.” “Great signing, Kante isn’t getting younger, imagine Ndidi, RLC and Kovacic – in my opinion, that would be the best midfield in the league and are all a good age,” added another. “He’d be class,” a third said. “If this can be pulled off, it’d be a no-brainer,” said another. Added a fourth: “Probably not true but would be a class signing if it were. He’s the best defensive midfielder in the league in my opinion and would improve our team so, so much.” “If it’s true, he would surely add depth to the squad,” said a fifth. “Class signing.” “Get in!!! I wanted him for a long time man,” another added. “This would be amazing,” another Chelsea fan said. These reports could ultimately be true, but it has also been proven that agents for different reasons, including getting clubs to seal the deal for a particular player faster than other suitors, sometimes plant such reports.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .