Members of Rotary Club of Eko Altantic and representatives of Ogba primary healthcare centre during the donation of medical equipment to the health facility …Donates laboratory equipment to Ogba primary healthcare centre
Rotary Club of Eko Atlantic has pledged to end sickle cell, cancer, maternal, infant, typhoid and other disease mortality in Lagos State, while donating laboratory equipment to assist accurate testing, diagnosis and treatment at Ogba primary healthcare centre. The club, yesterday, donated Electrophoresis machine, medical centrifuge machine, laboratory/research binocular microscope, haemoglobin metre and laboratory incubator to upgrade testing and diagnosis capacity in order to reduce death rate, according to the President, Dr Sunit Deb Roy. While handing over the equipment, Roy explained that the club has six core areas, with this project focused on healthcare, especially as the club seeks to end mortality arising from child bearing, sickle cell, cancer and typhoid among other diseases, just as the World Health Organization declared Nigeria polio free. He said the project was made possible through the Project Leader Rtn Adesola Bada, Chair Projects Rotarian Kishore Bendre and Vice President Projects Rtn Gboyega Bada “We had inspected the delivery room, laboratory, and all the departments in the facility and how we can upgrade them. We are donating five laboratory equipment so that people can come to this healthcare centre to do culture test, pregnancy test, typhoid test, genotype and PCV among other tests, and these are the common tests people run around spending money to do. We need to do tests for accurate diagnosis and treatment. We have adopted this health facility and will ensure we upgrade it to the highest standard,” he said. Commending the project, the Chief Medical Laboratory Scientist, Dr Akinkunmi Tolu, said the medical equipment are vital in boosting diagnosis in pregnant women and children, who contact respiratory tract infection and other diseases, adding that proper tests and treatment would be administered rather than trying different types of medication that puts lives at risk. Also stating the importance of the upgraded laboratory in the community, the Head of Laboratory Department, Ogba Primary Healthcare Centre, Ekundayo, said these equipment will boost the medical laboratory investigation and will also enhance the speedy recovery of patients after investigation, as well as help reduce death rate among residents of the community ” The centrifuge will be used for segmentation of fluids and run other tests where the serum is used. For the test we can do here, we can run pregnancy test, blood, microscopic test to detect cells, Sexual transmitted disease, genotype, PCV, heamoglobin and forensic, which detects the genes. “The light microscope is used to run culture and sensitivity test to check for ailments such as malaria, typhoid and all the sediments in urine. These machines for these particular tests are not something you get in regular healthcare centres, we are very privileged and glad that we have this at Ogba PHC,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .