Governor Abdullah Umar Ganduje has declared that Kano State is gradually getting victory over the deadly COVID-19 pandemic despite the contrary view of some experts. Ganduje, who unveiled the revelation while unveiling media training program on COVID-19, at Government house, insisted that beyond all hurdles, Kano is winning the war over the deadly virus. According to Ganduje, “Statistics in the last one week shows that, out of the total number of 2,603 samples collected, only 140 turned out to be positive, representing 5.4 percent. On 10th June, 2020 we had 179 samples collected and only 5 were positive, on 11th June, 2020 we had 124 samples and only 23 were positive. “Down to 15th June, 2020, when we had 688 samples and only 21 were positive, on 16th June, 2020, we had 229 samples and we had 0 positive and on 17th June, 2020, we had 134 samples and only 2 were positive.” With aforementioned results confirmed in the state, Governor Ganduje stressed that available evidence has indicated that people have continued to observe the NCDC protocols and health professionals advise on social distancing, use of face masks, washing hands with soap and running water, and use of sanitizer. “The synergy between the state and the media provides good space and situation where the fight against COVID-19 pandemic is strengthened. We see you and regard you as frontline practitioners in this response,” Ganduje said. He said the traditional rulers in the state have responded actively on community education and cooperation, which further widened understanding of the virus. Meanwhile, a professor of public health at Bayero University Kano, Isa Abubakar Sadeeq has cautioned against celebrating the decline in active case of COVID-19 pandemic in Kano. Professor Isa explained that winning the battle against COVID-19 pandemic can only be ascertained when negative dominate a large percentage of samples submitted for test. Professor Muhammad Tabi’u, who is the Chairman of the Initiative, commended Governor Ganduje for taking a lead, with his political will, in the fight against the pandemic. “We understand that, the media is an organ that is oriented and well equipped for this work. They mobilize all sections of the society to help remove any bottlenecks on the perception of the pandemic. They also help in curbing stigma,” he appreciated. In his brief remarks, the Chairman of the Kano Heads of Media Forum, Prince Aboki, applauded the efforts of the state government in its commitment towards the pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .