A 45-year-old carpenter, Olufalayi Obadare, was, on Tuesday evening, lynched by an angry mob at Olujoda area of Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State. It was gathered that the father of three was killed at about 5:00p.m. when some youths in the area, who suspected he was a robber, descended on the deceased for roaming the streets in a suspicious manner. An eyewitness said the deceased, residing with his family on llawe Road, Ado Ekiti metropolis, was hit with deadly weapons, making him to pass into coma and eventually died. It was learnt that Olujoda area had been under constant attacks by robbers recently, which prompted the youth to take such a hasty decision. Narrating how the incident happened, the deceased’s wife, Yemi, who lamented how the youths mistook him for a robber without any fact, said her husband told her of a contract he just secured at Olujoda area and set out that day for the task. She bemoaned the harrowing death of her husband and demanded justice. My husband told me that he was going to Olujoda to get a contract. I was greatly surprised when I heard he was killed because of suspicion that he was wandering around. “The question to ask is that, did they see any dangerous weapon on him? Why couldn’t they take him to the person who contracted him for the job to know his true identity? This was a gross injustice and the perpetrators must be brought to book.” One of the deceased’s relatives, Mrs Omowumi ldowu, said she was shocked when notified her brother, who suffered a slight malaria few days back, had been killed. “When I was told, I initially had the impression that he died of the ailment he complained about few days back, but I was shocked to hear that he was beaten to death by some people,” she said. The Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Sunday Abutu, when contacted, said investigations had commenced into the matter. Abutu said the body of the deceased had been deposited in the morgue, while some people had been apprehended by the police in connection with the incident.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .