• PDP Seeks To Take Over Vacant State Assembly Seats The All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed its resolve to probe into the genuineness of relevant documents including the educational certificates of Governor Godwin Obaseki and five others for the party’s June 22, 2020 gubernatorial Primary Election in Edo state. The six aspirants, who have bought, completed and submitted the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms are Osagie Ize-Iyamu, Godwin Obaseki, Dr. Pius Odubu, Engr. Chris Ogiemwonyi, Osaro Obazee and Matthew Aigbuhuenze Iduoriyekemwen. APC, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, explained that the decision was aimed at ensuring due diligence and transparency in the screening exercise. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the State, yesterday, described as unacceptable the committee set up by Edo state Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki to reconcile members-elect in the Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA). The PDP publicity secretary in Edo, Mr. Chris Nehikhare noted that it was wrong to describe members-elect, whose seats were declared vacant for failing to report for duty, as lawmakers-elect. In a statement in Benin, Nehikhare said that the setting up of the committee was baseless, adding that the 14 persons to reconcile with could no longer be described as lawmakers-elect because their seats had long been declared vacant. Explaining further, Nehikhare said by law, the seats declared vacant ought to be occupied by PDP members who finished as runners-up in the election, noting: “Their refusal to subscribe to the oath of membership and allegiance all through the first session and first quarter of the 7th Assembly was tantamount to abdication of office.” In reference to the circumstances surrounding the nullification of its victory in the Bayelsa governorship poll, the APC explained that the certificates verification was due to its “recent shocking experiences, and to avoid any lapses in the process.” It noted: “We are making the submitted information and documents of the governorship aspirants available to our party members and the public for verification of claims and to support the screening panel with information or any objection to the claims contained in the submission by the aspirants. “Consequently, the various submissions will be displayed at the Party’s National Secretariat in Abuja and in Benin City, the Edo State capital from Monday, June 8 to Tuesday, June 9, 2020 for claims and objections.” Recall that in line with the provisions of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) guidelines, APC had earlier released its timetable and schedule of activities for the conduct of the 2020 Governorship Primary Elections in Edo State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .