The Lagos State police command has arrested a man for allegedly impregnating his teenage daughter at the Ikorodu area of the state. The police have also arrested another man for allegedly defiling his 14-year-old daughter, while another man is held for allegedly raping his employer’s twin daughters. These were disclosed yesterday by the state’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bala Elkana, who gave a breakdown on how the crimes were committed. He said: “On June 12, at about 3:00 p.m., Ikorodu Police Station received a complaint from a member of International Female Lawyers Association (FIDA) that Eke Kanu, aged 61, of Ebute Road, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, was having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 19-year-old daughter (name withheld) without her consent. “The survivor told detectives that his father started having sexual intercourse with her when she was small and threatened to deal with her if she tells anybody. She further stated that when her father discovered that she was pregnant, he took her to a chemist where she was administered some drugs and injection to abort the pregnancy. “The survivor was taken to Mirabel Centre by the police for medical attention and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti Street, Yaba, for further investigation and diligent prosecution.” In a related development, Elkana said on June 26, at about 7:30 p.m., Bariga Police Station received a report that one 33-year-old Chibuike Kalu, of Amodu Street, Bariga, defiled his 14-year-old daughter (name withheld). The survivor was taken to Mirabel Medical Centre, Ikeja, for medical treatment and forensic examination. The suspect was arrested and he confessed to committing the crime. Another 26-year-old man was arrested by detectives in Aguda, Surulere, for defiling his employer’s twin daughters. On June 16, at about 2:55 p.m., a woman in her mid-30s (name withheld) reported at Aguda Police Station that her salesman, Chinedu Obi, aged 26, had sexual intercourse with her 12-year-old twin daughters (names withheld) when she left the two girls with him in her house. The police statement said: “The suspect was arrested and he confessed to the commission of the crime. He stated that he started having sexual intercourse with the girls in 2019. The Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the transfer of the case to Gender Unit, State Headquarters, Ikeja, for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution.” The police boss advised parents not to entrust their children, especially females, with anyone.
He further reaffirmed the commitment of the command to continually apprehending sexual offenders wherever they are in the state and making them face the full weight of the law. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .