Worried by the peculiar situation of Christians in Nigeria and globally, the Senior Pastor of Guiding Light Assembly, Lagos, Pastor Wale Adefarasin wants Christians to put their trust in God and avoid alternative plans. The senior pastor said those who trust in God don’t have plan B, as their focus is solely on the Lord, like Peter the fisherman. Speaking on the theme: Trusting God, Adefarasin quoted Luke 5:1-11, where he cited the example of Peter, who obeyed the Lord’s Word instantly and cast his net in the sea without doubt. He said this, while speaking on Inspiration 92 FM, adding that Peter never depended on his knowledge, but relied on the Lord, even without seeing any fish. He said: “Do not trust yourself or depend on your knowledge. We are to learn to trust God like Peter. Do not trust your experience. Know God intimately. In these times we live, we need to spend time with our families and God. Jesus taught about what is needful and Mary has chosen that which is needful. Get to know God and learn not to be filled with fear and anxiety. It is at this time that God has called us to trust Him. Learn to know Him, especially now amid COVID-19. He will direct our pathways. Those who trust God have peace, because God is bigger than the crisis we face. He will bring us to a place of safety.” On the origin of God and His ability, Adefarasin said: “God has no origin and as such, we need to trust Him. Nobody challenges Him. He’s God of justice and He never does evil. God is good. He’s all-powerful God and cares for us, even during this Coronavirus period. We can cry to Him for mercy and forgiveness. He is faithful. He doesn’t change His attitude toward us. He has loved us from eternity. When we talk of trust, it means we need to depend on Him, know Him and His ability. We experience His goodness, when we trust Him in difficult times. He never abandons those who trust Him, He is consistent.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .