The Borno State Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Economic Planning, Adamu Lawan, has said that about N6.6 billion internally generated revenues (IGR) collected in the first half of this year (June 19, 2020), was paid into the Treasury Single Account (TSA). According to him, the State’s IGR rose by 61 per cent over last year’s first half of N4.1 billion.While announcing the increase in IGR on Friday, at an inter-ministerial briefing in Maiduguri, he said: “The engagement of revenue collection consultants; and computerization of revenue collections by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), have expanded the tax base of individuals, firms and companies in the Organised Private Sector (OPS). He attributed the increase in IGR to the gradual restoration of peace after a decade long Boko Haram insurgency, thereby leading to increase in collection of various taxes and levies from markets and motor parks. He said revenues were also boosted by ground rents paid by landlords, which were not paid for many years, but now being remitted this year, adding: “The pay as you earn (PAYE) revenues from civil servants and other workers in the state has not increased, as embargo on employment is yet to be lifted by Governor Zulum.” He further disclosed that the MDAs’ computerization of tax collection and remitting into TSA has also expanded the government’s tax base, saying: “We also adopted the motivation of our staff in the ‘collection and remitting of revenues’ into TSA, instead of individual or MDAs’ official bank accounts.” This has helped in plugging various forms of diverting generated revenues by some consultants and MDAs.He noted that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic; has informed Governor Babagana’s administration to review and reduce this year’s budget by 30 per cent. “The bill to review the 2020 Budget over the COVID-19 pandemic; has been presented to the State House of Assembly for deliberations and adjustments,” he said. He noted that 42 per cent budget performance was also recorded in the first half. Zulum , had last December, assented to a N134.5 billion Budget for 2020; with total capital expenditure of N66.96 billion and recurrent expenditure of N67.54 billion.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .