PDP faults Assembly’s resolution to name incomplete project after Fayemi
The Ekiti State government has threatened to return total lockdown in the state following non-adherence to the preventive guidelines stipulated to curb the spread of COVID-19. It said it would have no option than to return to lockdown if the current non-chalant attitude of not obeying inter-state ban, social and physical distancing, mandatory use of face-mask and hand sanitiser, as well as other protocols, persist. The state’s Commissioner for Information, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua, said this while giving update on the COVID-19 situation in Ado-Ekiti yesterday. Olumilua said the governor of the state, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, was also disturbed by the porosity of Ekiti borders, which he said, accounted for the upsurge in the number of COVID-19 active cases in the state. “Governor Kayode Fayemi was not interested in inflicting hardship on Ekiti people and that was responsible for why he reopened economic activities between Monday and Friday.” The commissioner said that a committee, comprising government’s delegates, Parent-Teacher Association and proprietors of schools, was being put together by Governor Fayemi to interact and come up with recommendations that can facilitate easy reopening of schools. In another development, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State yesterday described the resolution by the state House of Assembly to name uncompleted Ekiti State Civic Centre after Governor Kayode Fayemi as clear display of emptiness, idleness and lack of nothing to show for the close to six years of Fayemi’s governance in Ekiti State. The party, in a statement signed by the Secretary of the State Caretaker Committee, Diran Odeyemi, said it was funny that after governing Ekiti State for close to six years, there was nothing tangible to attach the name of Governor Fayemi to except an uncompleted building. As part of the activities marking the first year in office of the sixth Ekiti Assembly on Monday, the Assembly had passed a motion mandating the executive to rename Ekiti State Civic Centre under construction as John Kayode Fayemi Cultural Centre. The PDP, in its reaction, said: “Only a do-nothing governor like Fayemi will seek to use his puppet Assembly members to achieve his personal ambition of immortalising himself.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .