 Rangers Football Club, Enugu. Photo: TWITTER/RANGERSINTFC  Chairman of the Supporters Club, Chief Ikechukwu Nwodo, revealed to reporters in Enugu that the level of support and equipment the club has received so far from the state government has placed it among the best clubs in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). He stated that the repositioning of the club started when the governor set up a 10-man board of inquiry, headed by Prof. Agu Gab Agu to ascertain the problems of the club and to formulate policies that could help bring it back to the winning ways. “That singular act paid off as it did not only help to bring the club back to life, but also added to the number of equipment and facilities that were provided to boost its determination to remain a truly professional club,” he stated. Nwodo noted that Ugwuanyi gave Rangers a standard gym, a medical department and fitness centre, Chattanooga Wireless Pro, Mobile Ultrasound, Mobile Laser, Intellect Redial Pressure Shockwave, Ankle and Elbow training machines, adding that “we have other facilities that include sweat treading machine, bicycle timer equipment and body rollers, physiotherapy first aid box, and physiotherapy consumables among others.” He stated that the centre alone and the equipment cost the state government over N40m, adding that the provision of physiotherapy and fitness centre for the club showed how much the governor loves the club. These were part of the things that boosted the morale of the players to now play on the African continent. Rangers won the league in 2016 after 32 years of wait with a 4-0 resounding victory over El-Kanemi Warriors FC of Maiduguri in the final match played in Enugu. “In 2018, the club also won the Federation Cup at Asaba, Delta State. Rangers have attended CAF continental competitions for seven times in which three were achieved under Ugwuanyi administration, ‘’ he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .