Popular event planner and wife of the founder and pastor of Trinity House church Ibidun Itua-Ighodalo died in the early hours of Sunday, a family source said. She was aged 40. The cause of her death is yet to be known as at the time of filing this report. Trinity House, in apparent confirmation of her death, posted a picture of burning candle preceded by two blank, black squares on its Twitter handle on Sunday. Similar posts appeared on the church’s Instagram page’ A representative of the family said in a terse statement on Sunday that the family of the deceased requested for privacy while mourning the death of the former Miss Lux winner. “The Ighodalo and Olaleye Ajayi families are deeply saddened to announce the sudden loss of our beloved wife and daughter Mrs Ibidunni Ituah-Ighodalo who passed away in the early hours of today,” Asue Ighodalo said in a statement. “As you will understand, this is a difficult time for our families and we will appreciate some privacy during this time. All information of burial proceedings will be provided in due course.” Ibidun Ighodalo was the founder of Ibidunni Ighodalo Foundation (IIF), a non-profit organisation she started to raise awareness about infertility and to provide grants for couples that require fertility treatments such as In Vitro Fertilization (IVF) and Intrauterine Insemination. She started the foundation after being told by doctors that she would not be able to ger pregnant without being assisted. “I made a covenant with God and told Him that I would leave it completely in His hands,” she said in a personal noted posted to the Foundation’s website.  “In the interim, as we wait for our miracle, I would help couples going through the same challenges by providing spiritual, financial and psychological support. “I was ready to do my part to get rid of the stigma attached to childlessness. I wanted people to instead see couples-in-waiting as blessed mothers and fathers of nations!”   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .