The Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF) has given palliatives to all the rugby clubs in Lagos as part of its drive to cushion the effects of the coronavirus pandemic on the clubs. The gifts were handed over to the clubs at the National Stadium, Lagos, with the players’ representative on the NRFF board, Adeniran Gbenga, national team captain, Azeez Ladipo, and NRFF Secretary, Victor Anusa, supervising the distribution. Speaking at the event, Gbenga said it was a dream come true to see the federation help players in these tough times. “Before now, players within and outside Lagos has been reaching out to me on their predicaments as a result of the global lockdown, which gave me serious worries. I had to reach out to the NRFF president, Kelechi Mbagwu and the board on how to help the players at this very difficult time. “I am happy that this small gesture will go a long way in lifting the players out,” he said.
National team captain, Ladipo assured that the giving out the palliatives is not a one-off event, but a continuous gesture, which will be spread across the other geo-political zones of the country. “We are going to do this across the six geo-political zones because we have many players across the various states and it is imperative that we don’t limit it to Lagos alone,” Ladipo noted. While advising players to stay safe and follow all safety instructions from the National Centre for Disease Control and all relevant authorities, the federation revealed that due to the restriction on inter-state movement, cash will be sent to coaches of clubs to buy foodstuff and share amongst the players. Cowrie Rugby Football Club captain, Sunday Bassey, while commending the NRFF for their gesture, said, “It has not been easy for us because when you keep spending and money is not coming in, it becomes difficult to survive. We have to commend the federation for deeming it fit to help out in their own small way.”
Racing RFC Assistant Coach, Emmanuel Ayewe, who picked up packages on behalf of his team, thanked the federation for reaching out to rugby players across Nigeria. “It has not been easy for players. For them not to be able to play the sport they love and have committed their lives to, it has been difficult. Thanks to NRFF for coming through for the players,” he said. Present at the presentation were the Deputy Liaison Officer, Nkana Mbora, who represented the Liaison Officer, Bode Durotoye, amongst other high-ranking staff of the Ministry of Sports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .