Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie on Friday described as unjust the outcome of the evaluation and screening process of the APC, which disqualified Governor Godwin Obaseki from participating in the June 22 primaries of the ruling party. Osagie, who described the process as a mockery of the democratic process, said they would not appeal the outcome of the screening exercise. “We have watched the mockery of democratic process, which Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is administering and superintending over in our great party the All Progressives Congress (APC). It has been an unfortunate, disheartening and dreadful spectacle. “We had initially asserted that going by the open display and enthronement of illegality by one man in the party that comprises several organs and eminent personalities, there is no way that Governor Godwin Obaseki would get a fair assessment in the run-up to the nomination of candidates to fly the flag of the party in the forthcoming Edo gubernatorial election. “It is unfortunate that this open show of shame, illegality and travesty of justice is the brand of democracy which Comrade Oshiomhole has reduced the APC into. The situation is quite saddening because this is a party supposedly reputed for change, equity and social justice. “We have therefore decided that it would be effort in futility to appeal whatever the unjust outcome of the evaluation and screening process of the APC will be, especially when Comrade Oshiomhole has declared that he is the Supreme Court and ultimate determiner of the fate and future of our great party. “We wish Oshiomhole luck in his maladministration of the party and trust that the Almighty will help our country to find the path to true liberty, freedom and justice.” Osagie called on all party members and the teeming supporters of Governor Obaseki to remain calm and await further directives.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .