Augustine Eguavoen One-time skipper and coach of the Nigerian men’s national football team, Augustine Eguavoen, has joined the league of former Super Eagles stars such as Jay Jay Okocha, Nwankwo Kanu, and Victor Ikpeba, who have penned brand ambassador deals with sports betting companies after he was officially unveiled as the new face of Betpay. In an official statement issued by Betpay, the company said the choice of Eguavoen was predicated on the impeccable track records and proven abilities of the former Super Eagles defender who was capped 49 times for Nigeria. Betpay CEO, Osamede Umweni, said it was necessary to find a face and personality that would project the company in the right light and also resonate easily with the millions of potential customers out there. “We are very delighted with this exciting partnership with Augustine Eguavoen who we all know is one of the best defenders ever to come out from this part of the world,” he stated. Eguavoen was a member of the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations-winning Super Eagles side as well as an integral part of Nigeria’s team to the USA ‘94 World Cup. His last appearance for Nigeria came at the 1998 World Cup, in Nigeria’s 3-1 loss to Paraguay. That game in Toulouse brought an end to an international career that began in July 1987 in an AFCON qualifier against Sierra Leone. Since then, Eguavoen, who spent the greater part of his 16 years playing career in Europe, has gone on to coach clubs in Nigeria, Malta, and South Africa, as well as the Super Eagles, and has expressed delight with his new role as a Betpay brand ambassador. “I am highly excited to be associated with Betpay,” said Eguavoen. “Football has impacted positively on my image. I can only look back at what football has done for me. “For now, it’s time to give back by way of economic empowerment. Betpay is the ideal platform to reward the teeming followers of the game and the betting avenue.” Apart from opening another channel for sports betting aficionados to win big and live their dreams, Betpay is set to create thousands of jobs with its new model. Umweni revealed both time and huge resources were deplored to develop the world-class platform as well as the right team behind it. “We have built a state-of-the-art platform, using modern technology which none of our competitors possess,” he said, before adding: “Our mission is to be the best-loved betting company in Nigeria through innovations, trust and transparency.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .