State govt begins distribution of furniture to schools No fewer than four prominent Delta State indigenes namely: Maj. Gen. Orho Obada (rtd), Chief Tom Amioku, Joyce Overah and Pastor (Mrs.) Victoria Avwomakpa, have died within the last six days. While Obada, Amioku and Avwomakpa died at the weekend, Overah passed on a week ago. They all died separately after brief illnesses of undisclosed nature. A family member told The Guardian that Obada, a former Federal Commissioner, Acting Chief of Air Staff and erstwhile Aide-de-Camp (ADC) to former President, the late Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, died on Saturday night after a brief illness. He was also a Federal Commissioner, Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Commander, Training Command and Second-in-Command, Nigeria Air Force (NAF), Kaduna and current Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU). Amioku, a former Commissioner for Works in Delta State, DESOPADEC Commissioner, chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and former Vice Chairman of PDP in Delta Central, died after a protracted illness that had kept him away from active politics for months. Reliable sources confirmed that Overah, a former Commissioner and House of Representatives member, equally died after a brief illness. The late Avwomakpa, who was wife of the immediate past Chairman of South-South Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Archbishop God-Dowell Avwomakpa, also died after a brief illness. MEANWHILE, in preparation for the reopening of schools closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Delta State Government has commenced distribution of 760 sets of furniture to three public secondary schools in the state. Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Patrick Ukah, disclosed that the process, which is an ongoing exercise, would be replicated across the state in continuation of the exercise that began in March, but was stopped due to coronavirus lockdown. Ukah, who was represented by an Assistant Director, Planning, Research and Statistics, Mrs. Clementina Ojumah, led a team that inspected the items in the schools located in Warri South and Warri South West council areas of the state. “The beneficiating schools are Dore Numa College, Warri which received 300 students’ tables and chairs, 20 tables and 20 chairs for teachers; Hussey College, Warri got 250 students’ tables and chairs, 20 tables and 20 chairs for teachers, while Naifor Island Secondary School, Naifor Island received 150 pieces for students and 20 tables and 20 chairs for teachers,” he said. He also stated that the Principal of Dore Numa College, Ejoh Dimas, and Secretary of the Community, Godwin Oburoh, had conducted the inspection team round the classrooms and halls where the items were assigned. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .