• Over 4,000 IDPs will return soon, says Masari
• Device measures to end Taraba killings, the church tells govts Troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have killed 12 bandits, arrested seven, including one informant/collaborator, and rescued kidnap victims in Kastina State. Disclosing this yesterday in Abuja, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said the troops had continued to record significant success against bandits and criminal elements, as part of its continued aggressive clearance operation. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, stated that the troops foiled armed bandits’ attack at Mara Zamfarawa village in Danmusa Council of Katsina and in the process killed six bandits while several others escaped with gunshot wounds. “Following aggressive patrol and intelligence reports by troops at Dunya village in Danmusa Council, troops successfully arrested suspected bandits’ informers/collaborators. The suspects are currently being interrogated and profiled for further action,” he said. MEANWHILE, more than 4,000 Internally Displaced Persons (IDP), who fled Katsina communities due to attacks by bandits, will soon return to continue with their farming, Governor Aminu Masari has said. Their return, the governor added, would depend on how quickly bandits operating in forests around the affected communities were flushed out by the ongoing military operation in the state. The governor was speaking at the weekend during a sympathy visit to IDP camps in Faskari and Dandume councils. Masari said about 4,000 IDPs in Faskari and about 800 others in Dandume would continue to receive food and medicaments during their stay in the camps. The Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development/Chairman of the State Action Committee on IDPs, Sani Danlami, confirmed that the IDPs had been receiving due attention from the committee. In a related development, the Christian Reformed Church ­– in Nigeria (CRC-N) has urged governments at all levels to device measures that will end the crisis between the Tiv and Jukun ethnic groups in Taraba State. At the end of the 119th General Church Council meeting held in Takum Council yesterday, President of the Church/ National Vice President of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr. Caleb Ahima, observed that the era of lip service had passed and that time for expedited action from the government to end the crisis “is now.” In a communiqué, the church noted that the government had the constitutional power and the responsibility of ending the crisis. The communiqué jointly signed by the church’s General Secretary, Rev. Sagarga Gargea, urged those affected by the crisis to “exhibit virtues of forgiveness, tolerance and love as taught by the Holy Scripture.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .