 As part of our 5 years in office and in commemoration of Democracy Day, Lalong commissioned the Operation Rainbow Security and surveillance Centre at Jos Jarawa (Dutse Uku). Photo: TWITTER/SBLALONG  Speaking at the ceremony on Friday, Lalong said the action was part of efforts to consolidate peace and security in the state as Nigeria marks democracy day. He said the action was premised on pro-community engagement approach in crime detection and prevention, saying it was to restore peace in the state especially in hot spots such as Dutse Uku which was in the past embroiled in crises. “This Security Outpost and Surveillance Tower are designed to detect, prevent and minimize crime within the Dutse Uku, Jos Jarawa and the Jos general area by providing a grassroots-based intelligence gathering system to assist security agencies in responding effectively to distress calls within the Jos metropolis. “This project which was approved in January this year has nine offices; a dialogue and conference hall; Information Technology Infrastructure with CCTV Platform; Dome Camera with 1.5 kilometre range that gives day and night visuals of 1,500 mp and a solar-powered inverter that can provide power for about 12 hours a day,” he said. The governor said the Centre had an Armoured Personnel Carrier and two patrol vehicles equipped with security gadgets, for rapid response in crime prevention. He expressed confidence that the gesture would further foster peaceful coexistence among the people and strengthen the capacity of security agencies to deal with any threat to the lives of the people within this area and beyond. He said the Centre would be replicated in other areas across the state, which would set the tone for implementation of Community Policing in the state, projected to be effective in addressing current and emerging security challenges. “In recent times, we have seen the attempts by some criminals to instil fear among the people through kidnappings, robberies, cultism, rape and banditry. “With this Security Outpost and Surveillance Tower, we will be able to not only identify them within the communities but also move against them before they commit crimes. “We expect that the process of reconciliation, mutual understanding among people of different backgrounds within this area will continue through the use of facilities in this outpost,” Lalong said. He stressed the need for peace as a critical factor in fast-tracking development in any society, saying his administration of five years had yielded positive results in that regard and attracted more investors to the state. He urged criminals to desist from such act as modalities were on the ground through community policing, to engage members of the community in fishing them out. Earlier in his remarks, Mr Cornelius Shiolbial, the Permanent Secretary, Cabinet and Special Services, commended the governor for making security one of his priorities in the state. Shiolbial said the project was completed in good time because of his commitment to ensuring the security of lives and property, saying it would aid in intelligence gathering and detecting early warning signals of crisis. Lalong also laid the foundation for another surveillance outpost at Bauchi Road, in Jos North Local Government Area.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .