The Imo State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has decried the falling standard of education in Nigeria. The association also said it was not happy with the security situation in the country and the rot in the health sector, which has resulted in Nigeria’s failure to produce a cure for COVID-19. In a statement yesterday to commemorate this year’s Democracy Day, the State Chairman, Dr. Eches Divine, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to holistically address the problems bedeviling the education, security and health sectors of the economy, noting that the country would begin to make giant strides when that is done. “We call for the equipping of laboratory facilities and funding for research by Nigerian scientists.
Government needs to give attention to the immediate equipping of all the citadels of learning throughout Nigeria,” Divine said. He added: “We ought to provide the solution that Madagascar has offered as a result of the COVID-19 situation. Nigeria not Madagascar ought to be in the forefront of providing a cure for coronavirus, which would have been a source of revenue for the nation. “Truth be told, we pray that there will be an urgent turn around, because every serious minded nation makes huge budgetary provisions for education, which will in turn usher development. No doubt, the greatest disease is ignorance. We must provide quality education, quality teachers and lecturers, equipping of our laboratories and educational institutions with modern gadgets, and not the obsolete or moribund type as presently obtainable.” On the health sector, the association said COVID-19 pandemic has taught the country a lesson since nobody was going anywhere for any medical jamboree or tourism. “It has taught us a lesson that we should change as a nation. We call for the equipping of our healthcare institutions fast. We need world-class facilities as well as the retraining of our health workers. As front line workers, there must be general health insurance for our health workers so that while they are on the front line working, they are assured that if for any reason something happens, their families will be well catered for by the system.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .