With the rising cases of rape, sexual molestation especially among young and vulnerable girls, six women have teamed up in a book titled, Free to share their story as well as journey towards healing. Written by Debola Salako-Kupoluyi, which featured Ruth Senaya, Bukola Ogunwale, Debbie Amole, Funmi Ayowole and another who prefers to be anonymous, the book shares their journey through sexual molestation to healing. According to Salako-Kupoluyi, founder of Mantle of Mordechai (MOM) Foundation, who is passionate about transforming lives, the book is coming at a time when cases of rape have become rampant and it addresses how victims can heal, our young children will be educated on what they need to know to prevent and identify molesters. Free was launched virtually in Lagos in May. It exposes sexual molestation in children, its effects and provides a guide to healing through transformational tools. The book, according to the author, was inspired by God and the essence is to bring change to the next generation by shining a bright light where few others dare to go. It reveals how six successful women were sexually abused when they were children. It highlights precautions that could be taken to avoid sexual abuse in children and emphasizes the importance of parenting. Free is for people of all ages and more specifically written for children, teenagers, their parents/guardian and anyone at all who has suffered the ugly acts of sexual molestation and its effects. The author is in partnership with Cece Yara Foundation and Mantle of Mordecai (MOM) foundation to provide professional counselling, treatment and on-going support to children who are victims of sexual abuse helped through Free. As part of the commitment to eradicating childhood sexual molestation, 25 per cent of proceeds from the sale of the book would go to Cece Yara Foundation. Its mission is to prevent child sexual molestation through community empowerment and support. Also, 25 per cent goes to MOM foundation to enhance the value of life of children by ensuring that they get quality education. The proceeds will be used to sponsor the education of a child who is a victim of sexual abuse. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .