Lagos State Commissioner for Transport, Dr. Fredrick Oladende (left); General Manager, Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Mrs. Abimbola Akinajo; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Commissioner for Tourism Art and Culture, Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf; Chairman, House of Assembly Committee on Transport, Adewale Temitope and Managing Director, LARALEK Ultimate Limited, Olalekan Adebiyi, during the inauguration of the Oshodi-Abule Egba BRT corridor in Lagos…yesterday. • Lagos inaugurates Oshodi-Abule-Egba BRT corridor with 550 buses
About 50 Lagos residents, yesterday, benefited from a poverty alleviation programme designed to lift some vulnerable residents out of poverty. Presenting the cheques to the first batch of 50 beneficiaries of the programme organised by the Lagos State Office of Civic Engagement, the governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said poverty remains one of most devastating challenges globally, but his administration is determined to implement programmes that would engender economic growth and create more employment opportunities. In her address, the Special Adviser Office of Civic Engagement, Princess Aderemi Adebowale, said the governor had completed the disbursement of financial assistance to 2,000 residents under the ‘Eko Cares’ initiative with the theme: ‘Go Forward – Grow Lagos.’ According to her, with the funds provided under the scheme, beneficiaries would be exposed to business and investment opportunities requiring minimal start-up capital. “Sanwo-Olu Listens is borne out of the continuous aspirations of the administration to support struggling individuals in the state. It is an understatement that a lot of people need financial assistance to solve a mirage of challenges ranging from chronic ailments, accidents, diverse degrees of disasters, to loss of jobs, businesses and livelihoods occasioned by the prevalence of COVID-19  pandemic, which has ravaged the world. “The situation has prompted the present administration to initiate practical and progressive solutions towards providing succour to vulnerable Lagosians. As a listening governor that cares for the citizenry, Mr. Governor has risen to the occasion by assisting the needy in the state.”
Meanwhile, the governor said with the commissioning of the Oshodi-Abule-egba BRT corridor and deployment of 550 mass and medium buses, the journey to Abule-Egba from Oshodi, which often takes over one hour, would be completed in fewer than 30 minutes. The governor added that between 60,000 and 70,000 passengers would be daily conveyed by the new buses that would be deployed to the new BRT corridor, with a plan to increase the passengers being moved daily to 100,000. Speaking at the inauguration of the new BRT corridor, Sanwo-Olu, who said he would not allow the pandemic to slow him down, disclosed that the construction of the Lagos Redline rail project, which would commence soon, should be completed in the next 24 months. The governor, who also used the occasion to unveil the state e-ticketing system for public transportation, disclosed that 100,000 free e-cards would be given to passengers. He said the e-cards are meant to promote cashless economy aside providing ease of payment for passengers. According to Sanwo-Olu, the buses should have been deployed before now, but were held up at the port until President Muhammadu Buhari intervened, and the buses were released. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .