Photo credit: friendship circle.org As the lockdown continues, what is topmost in the minds of most parents is how best to creatively engage their children this period. Schools are still shutdown due to the severity of the pandemic, hence Jayne Augoye, founder Fabmumng, a parenting resource online community says parents can still keep their kids productively engaged even with the short time they have to spend together each day. Here are a few ways to keep your child productive.
Enroll in Online Activity Classes: Attempt to follow-up and understand the interests and hobbies of your kids and then enroll them in different activity online classes like general knowledge, art, and craft, music classes, coding, and writing. This will help channel their energy to doing something creative and productive. Setup A Creative Space At Home: Setting up a creative space for your kids with lots of craft supplies such as paper sheets, glue, a makeshift canvas, pom-poms, tapes, kid-friendly scissors, glitter and craft kits, will encourage your kid to create something new every day using those supplies. The task may be to create a simple cutout or anything of his/her choice or you could prepare a list of art and craft, or other indoor activities for the day or on a weekly basis. Educational Games: If you have a computer or tablet available to your kids during your busy hours, educational computer games are a great way to impart some fun and keep your child productively engaged at the same time. These mobile games keep kids thinking and boredom at bay. Ensure that you have parental lockset up when handing them the gadgets. Make sure that you use sites and apps that are safe for children to use. Reading: This is majorly for your primary school children, from ages eight upwards. For reading to be an independent activity, stimulating fun and productivity, a child needs to attain a certain level of proficiency. However, there are a couple of wordless or nearly wordless children’s books that can engage kids of all ages and reading levels. To encourage reading therefore, you can let kids choose several books from the library – they will find it way more fun, reading a book they choose themselves. But even when you do this, you should pick a few yourself in case they are unhappy with their choices later. Drawing/Painting: Colours are always a fascination for children and almost all of them love to squabble, paint, sketch, or whatever it is that they really do. Art is a great medium for children to express their imagination; an important part of brain development, besides being an excellent fun way to keep children engaged and productive indoors. Assisting In Household Chores: Picking beans, vegetables, doing dishes, wiping dust off surfaces, playing kitchen assistants, or any suitable chores for their age grade; involve your child with your daily housekeeping activities. It’s a great way to engage children at home and at the same time, get the job done. It’s a win-win for all. Household chores imbibe in children cleanliness, discipline, time management, and most importantly how to look after themselves. See to it that they are simple tasks and that they don’t stress your child. Additionally, you can create a to-do list for them. Watching the to-do list shrink will be a great motivation for your child. The triple mum and parenting expert stressed that it is important to seek help above all. “While you remain busy with work, your spouse or other family members can also engage the kid indoors. It takes a community to raise a kid. In the current times, while practicing social isolation, working from home and home schooling, you can share the load with your significant other or the other family members. Also, join online and virtual communities for support and relatable advice,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .