Gov Zulum Raises Alarm Over Recruitment Of IDPs By Insurgents The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), yesterday, destroyed 19,234.58 kilogrammes of seized drug in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. The destroyed drugs comprised cannabis sativa and a variety of psychotropic substances in bags and cartons. While destroying the illicit drug along Dikwa Road, Maiduguri, Friday, NDLEA’s Chairman and Chief Executive, Col. Muhammad Abdullah (rtd) disclosed that the symbolic importance of the event was to “ensure all seized drugs are permanently put out of circulation.” He said the exercise was to further decimate evil merchants by burning their illicit investments in drugs, while they spend years in prison.He disclosed that an order must be granted by the Federal High Court to enable the agency destroy seized drugs by burning. “Relative to the population of Borno State, with a documented nexus between drugs and violent crimes, the quantity of seized drugs over the years is alarming,” he said. He said aside the destroyed drugs; there were still large quantities of drugs with pending cases in courts. Meanwhile, Governor of Borno State, Babagana Umara Zulum has raised fresh alarm that Boko Haram was recruiting fresh members, mostly from the internally displaced persons (IDPs) camps, to unleash further mayhem. Zulum said the insurgents are taking advantage of poverty and boredom among the IDPs to scout for followers. “The Boko Haram sect is working on people to join them. This is frightening. If the IDPs living in camps could not get what they want, especially the opportunity to return to their various towns and go back to farm, they might be forced to join Boko Haram,” he said. Zulum spoke in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service, monitored in Kaduna. He explained that the IDPs were tired and bored of staying in the camps, as they were not getting what they wanted. “It is important that they return to their various towns, as no government can continue feeding them,” he added.He explained that his government had been able to return displaced persons to Mafa and Kukawa, while plans were on to return people to Kawuri. He also expressed hope that the military would intensify efforts and make it possible for people to return to Baga, Marte, Malam Fatori and Guzamala. Zulum told the BBC that the security situation in the state was improving, though there was still danger, as Boko Haram elements were still in their hiding place. “The sect members are hiding at the Lake Chad area and Sambisa Forest. There will still be problem, unless they are traced to their hiding places. Chasing them away from their headquarters is one of the solutions towards ending insurgency,” he said. He, however, observed that chasing Boko Haram elements from Sambisa needed support from Nigeria’s neighbours. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .