 Bukola Saraki  Futile invite for Atiku, Saraki and company
IT was therefore against that nervous background that Nigerians woke up to the surprise invitation by APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, asking former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, and former speaker of the House of Representatives and governor of Sokoto State, Waziri Tambuwal to return to the party in the spirit of reconciliation.
 
Although some critics dismissed the call as a curious joke by APC based on the plethora of unresolved crises arising from the 2018 congresses and governorship primaries in most state chapters, commentators on Nabena’s statement exposed the yawning gap in the party as it marches towards 2023. 
 
It could be recalled also that Tinubu had, at a chance meeting with Atiku in Minna, Niger State, dangled the idea of a possible return to APC. The current disputations about zoning in the governing party show that the invitation to these opposition leaders was mere shadow-chasing. 
 
The APC deputy national publicity secretary had explained that Dogara and Gemade’s return “attests to the fact that the ongoing effort by the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led caretaker committee to reconcile aggrieved members and strengthen the party is yielding the desired dividends.  End of defections
PERHAPS, the most intriguing aspect of Nabena’s statement is the claim that “the APC caretaker committee, led by Governor Buni, has created a conducive and sincere environment to address many of the grievances among our party’s ranks and return the party to its progressive and lofty heights.”
 
For instance, the issue of how to zone the chairmanship position vis-à-vis the contemplation of where the presidential standard bearer in 2023 should come from is currently enervating the committee. Consequently, could Atiku, Saraki, Tambuwal or Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso’s return to APC be the magic wand to solve those puzzles, without creating fresh recriminations, especially against the background of issues that precipitated their exit in the first instance?  
 
The mere fact that neither APC nor PDP could present an ideal political party founded on ideological framework and strong leadership, as well as the response from those being invited by the governing party show the likelihood of imminent end to movement across party lines. If each of the big parties commit to internal repairs and regeneration, the search for fruitful democratic governance that translates to good governance would be in sight. 
 
That could explain Atiku’s response when he stated through his Special Adviser on Media, Mazi Paul Ibe, that he would not return to a sinking ship, stressing that “all these shenanigans are to distract Nigerians from the monumental failures at governance…”
 
While equating a return to APC to “willingly opting to go to hell,” Atiku noted that APC’s leadership in the past five years does not win it admirers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .