HOLLYWOOD, CA – JUNE 22: Music producer Dr. Dre (R) and wife Nicole Young attend the premiere of HBO’s ‘The Defiant Ones’ at Paramount Theatre on June 22, 2017 in Hollywood, California. (Photo by Jeffrey Mayer/WireImage) Dr. Dre‘s wife Nicole Young has claimed that the rapper tore up the prenuptial agreement she had signed before they married as a “grand gesture of his love”. According to new court documents obtained by The Blast, Young, 50, claimed that she was “pressured” into signing the agreement. In her declaration, she said: “I must sign a premarital agreement or he would not marry me. I was extremely, reduction, resistant, and afraid to sign the agreement and felt backed into a corner.” She said that she was “left with no option but to sign it ‘unwillingly.'” Young added that two or three years after they wed, the 55-year-old rapper tore up the documents in front of her. According to the new court filing, she said Dre “destroyed the agreements as a grand gesture of his love for Nicole and his desire to have a marriage free of any financial restrictions governing their respective rights and responsibilities” Young claims Dre “felt ashamed he had pressured me into signing a premarital agreement and he tore up multiple copies of the agreement in front of me. Since the day he tore up the agreements, we both understood that there was no premarital agreement, and it was null and void.” However, a source told TMZ that Dr. Dre “never expressed shame over the prenup and he never tore it up or said it was invalid.” The source maintained that Young had her own lawyer and had a clear choice on whether to sign the agreement or not. Young said in the documents that she and Dre should split all assets, including any cash and real estate. That would leave her with around $400M. Dr. Dre is worth an estimated $800 million. Nicole Young filed for divorce in June after 24 years of marriage citing irreconcilable differences. Dre and Nicole Young married in 1996. It was the first marriage for Dre. Young was previously married to NBA player Sedale Threatt. The pair share two adult children together, daughter Truly Young, 19, and son Truice Young, 23. The rapper has four children from previous relationships.