 S.O.B Agunbiade  A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly representing Ikorodu One Constituency, S.O.B Agunbiade, has urged the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 (PTF), the Ministry of Sports and relevant agencies fighting against the coronavirus pandemic to ensure that athletes and coaches are well tested before allowing them to take part in sporting activities when restrictions in sports is lifted in the country. Reacting to the PTF’s plan to ease restriction on sports activities, starting with non-contact sports, Agunbiade said testing athletes would check the spread of the virus during competitions at any level. He said it was important for sports to resume to create opportunities for athletes, who earn their living through it, to get back on track after months of absence in the sporting arena. Agunbiade added that he would organise the yearly Ikorodu marathon for students and youths at the grassroots, as part of measures to develop marathon race in the country, as well as churn out talents that would represent the country in the sport. “The plan of the PTF on COVID-19 to lift the restrictions on sports is a welcome development. We cannot continue to keep athletes out of sports for too long as most of them earn a living through sports. Keeping them idle for long also gradually affects their effectiveness. “But basic precautions have to be taken before allowing any athlete to engage in any physical activity to avoid the spread of the COVID -19 virus in the sports arena. “Athletes should be tested if they are a few in the event. “In a game of Lawn Tennis and Squash, which is for just two people and few officials, failing to test for COVID-19 will be dangerous.” Agunbiade supports the plan to stop spectators from venues in view of the prevailing situation. On sports facilities, Agunbiade called on Governor Sanwo-Olu led Lagos State to construct a stadium in Ikorodu. He said, “The last administration led by Governor Ambode promised to build a stadium in Ikorodu, but since he could not come back for the second term, the pledge was not fulfilled. “I have been pleading with the current state governor to construct a stadium in Ikorodu. There is a piece of land close to Lagos State Polytechnic waiting to be utilized for the purpose. If the Stadium is constructed, it will enhance sports development in the area, serve as training ground for Polytechnic students and also host sports activities in the state,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .