It appears that the Kiddwaya and Erica’s relationship has been blessed by Kiddwaya’s father, Terry Waya. In an Instagram Live session with media mogul Chief Dele Momodu, he hinted at a Versace wedding in Italy and the very considerate billionaire also mentioned another for the fans. Recall that the relationship between beauty queen Erica Nlewedim (Read her interview with The Guardian Life here) and Kidd Waya has been the most talked about in the BBNaija2020 lockdown, and has been trailed by triangles. In the house, Vee, one of the contestants allegedly insinuated at black magic being responsible for the display of emotions between the two. READ MORE: Who Is Laycon, BBNaija’s Diamond In The Rough? Read More: Listen To BBNaija’s Laycon New Track “Senseless” However, Terry Waya has said that he doesn’t hold back on what tribe love decides to come from. “You know me I cut across all sections in Nigeria, any part of the country I go too, I‘m at home. “There’s no place in Nigeria I do not have best friends. Anywhere my children decide to settle and set up a home they have my blessing. We are all one; it does not matter which culture or language you speak. “Whoever he chooses, as a father I’ll always support him. I’m prepared to do a Versace wedding in Italy and also one here for the fans in Nigeria.” Team Kiddrica gadda here o. TERRY WAYA and Dele monody are planning two weddings for KIDDWAYA AND ERICA. One Versace wedding in Italy and one in Nigeria. Aso ebi is ready  #BBNaija pic.twitter.com/kv2tvP63tU — Taiye (@GodswillTaiye) August 27, 2020  While Erica and Kiddwaya continue to be “besties,” fans have started to prepare for their wedding. Not the interviewer telling Terry Waya ‘you’re about to become a father in law to Erica’ and Terry laughed and said whoever Kidd chooses, he supports pic.twitter.com/WeeLHVg4e5 — ericakiddwaya (@xeezii) August 27, 2020  Varsace wedding LOADING…..ELITES COOOOOOOOOOOME OUT OOOOOOO TERRY WAYA LOVES ERICA …LORD I AM THE HAPPIEST THIS EVENING street BASH ANYONE..I GAT BRING COOLER BOXES #BBNaija pic.twitter.com/N9cXnOhKng — Lowla_Royalty (@LowlaRoyalty) August 27, 2020  After watching that live video of Terry waya and Dele momodu ehn. I’m howling AF. We’re having an international Versace studded wedding y’all . Never laughed this hard — Xtra DIDI  (@thic_didi) August 27, 2020  Waking up to this beautiful news as  #Kiddrica shipper that Baba Terry Waya has blessed our ship and planning a wedding in Italy already hey God is so wonderful  #BBNaija pic.twitter.com/Ryy5LMc3md — #KiddricaX85m  (@Mandie_simza) August 28, 2020  Versace Italian wedding? Shippers, is Terry Waya waya sailing with us? #BBNaija — Chineze (Ex Mrs Walcott  Ozil's bae (@Amchizzy) August 27, 2020  However, some opine that it might a joke Terry waya na cruise guy from time — Boomba (@OmonzyGiwa) August 27, 2020  Terry waya use us to catch cruise on his live session with Dele Momodu. Well as an inlaw. I joined halfway — Thelma (@lauratey) August 27, 2020  And let the Kiddrica stanship family say Amen.