The death of Chief Lanre Rasak, a member of the Governors’ Advisory Council (GAC) of Lagos State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), who passed on at age 74, came as another ‘hit’ to the people of Lagos East Senatorial District, especially those in Epe division. Since 2018 when the leadership of the party decided to move the governorship slot from the zone to the Central, which, of course, favoured the incumbent, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the area had recorded several other disasters, including the death of late Senator Bayo Osinowo and that of Mr. Tunde Buraimoh, who represented Kosofe Constituency 11 in Lagos State House of Assembly. Now Rasak has joined the home call within the space of three months. What, however, made the three deaths more painful to the electorate, and not just members of the ruling APC in the zone, is the fact that Rasak, Osinowo and Buraimoh are all grassroots politicians and were considered as ‘extraordinarily generous’ to the masses. The death of the former commissioner for transportation in Lagos, which occurred on Saturday after a brief illness at Reddington Hospital in Lagos, came as a rude shock to his people in Epe, who are already getting set to support his (Rasak) senatorial aspiration for the forthcoming Lagos East Senatorial bye-election scheduled to hold in October. One of the mourners in Epe told The Guardian yesterday, “Our division has lost another big personality.” In a condolence remark, a colleague of Rasak in GAC, Senator Anthony Adefuye described the deceased as a hardworking party member, a loyal and generous man to the core. According to Adefuye, “One of the charming characters of Rasak was his ability to succumb to a superior argument and forge ahead even if such position causes him pain.” The former federal lawmaker also eulogised Rasak’s virtue as a professional road contractor apart from politics, saying, “My friend practised his profession until his death.” Adefuye, however, called on the state government to name a major road in Epe after Rasak. In another condolence message, a member of GAC, Chief Olorunfunmi Bashorun said, “I knew Rasak since 1979 during the era of former governor Lateef Jakande. He (Rasak) also served as a supervisor in one of the councils and he was an amiable character with open mind. “One of the things that endeared him to me, as a junior person in age, was the fact that Rasak derives pleasure in education, which eventually helped him to rise quickly in his political career.” Former governor of Lagos State, Bola Tinubu described the late politician as a well-known ally and a defender of the progressive cause. “He was a loyal and energetic party man, who did a lot for APC, Lagos State and his Epe hometown. He contributed his quota to the development of the people and betterment of the society. Chief Rasaq had had his hand on the plough and never to look back. His death is a big loss to Lagos and Epe town.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .