 Buhari. Photo; TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  The SDGs is a 15-year development strategy designed by the United Nations (UN), as an improvement on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) for member nations to effect development in all areas, particularly at the grassroots. SDGs target development and growth in fighting poverty through empowerment, job creation, provision of clean and safe water, roads, power, as well as provision of social amenities for meaningful development and growth. Speaking at a stakeholders’ forum at the Civic Centre, Aiyegbaju in Oye Local Council of Ekiti State, on Friday, Ale identified lack of finance and government’s failure to properly domesticate SGDs development model to meet peculiar status, as factors inhibiting Nigeria from realising the goals, after five years. Ale said Nigeria’s late entry into the earlier MDGs’ model had adversely affected its socio-economic development pace, adding that there is an urgent need for government, at all levels, to domesticate the principles of 17 SDGs for the nation to achieve meaningful development. He said: “The eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) were designed to primarily eradicate poverty. “We domesticated the MDGs in Nigeria, but we couldn’t meet up with the global indices, because we joined late and we had our own peculiar challenges…” “SDGs came up with 17 goals. It is a herculean task and we may not meet up because though a lot is being done in Nigeria, we aren’t doing much in monitoring. “If we want to grow, the sustainable development must be domesticated in the Nigerian context…Every nation is to pick the goals, as a guiding principle on how to domesticate the implementation of that suggestion by the UN and bring it to their own status of development. “How many Nigerians know what SDG is? Go to higher institutions and ask them what it means. If you can get 90 percent of respondents to say yes, then, we would have domesticated it. I can tell you that some state chief executives do not even know.  How many states have development plans in line with SDGs?” On the level of SDGs impact in local areas in the country, he said: “From what I see around, especially where I reside, I can say there is zero impact of SDGs, probably because states couldn’t access the funds. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .