 A wounded Afghan man walks after he received treatment at an Italian aid organisation hospital, following a dozen rockets that struck in Kabul on August 18, 2020. – More than a dozen rockets struck the Afghan capital on August 18, wounding at least 10 civilians as the country marked the 101st anniversary of its independence, the interior ministry said. (Photo by WAKIL KOHSAR / AFP)  Fourteen rockets were fired into central Kabul on Tuesday as the country celebrated the 101st anniversary of its independence, with one of the missiles slamming into the compound of the Arg presidential palace. Interior ministry spokesman Tareq Arian said three people, including two government employees, had been killed in the strike. He did not specify who the employees were, but two palace officials told AFP on condition of anonymity they were members of Ghani’s honour guard. Another six honour guard members were wounded when the rocket hit the palace compound shortly after Ghani had wrapped up his ceremonial duties. The Arg palace is in a highly fortified area of the capital that also houses several embassies. Arian said 16 other people were wounded in the rocket salvo, including four children and a woman. No group has so far claimed the attack, which came as the Afghan government and the Taliban are poised to begin peace talks. Ghani’s swearing-in ceremony on March 9 was also interrupted by rocket fire near the palace. No serious injuries were reported at the time. In August 2018, multiple rockets were fired in Kabul, including at the presidential palace where Ghani was making a speech. The Islamic State group claimed responsibility. On Wednesday, two people were killed in separate bomb attacks in Kabul, police spokesman Ferdows Faramurz said. The two sticky bombs — a homemade explosive attached to vehicles with magnets — targeted a military vehicle and one belonging to the education ministry, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .