Founder of the AGS Tribe, Ifedayo Durosinmi-Etti has announced that applications for this year’s AGS Enterprise Challenge is now open. The yearly Enterprise Challenge is the first of its kind pitch competition for women entrepreneurs that contribute to the Nigerian economy. Launched in 2018 to showcase, empower and fund female led businesses across Nigeria, it has since then showcased and empowered countless female entrepreneurs through an online pitch competition. Since inception, the competition has successfully given out grants to six women entrepreneurs across the country and these businesses have grown exponentially since their win in a short amount of time. Speaking with The Guardian, Durosinmi-Etti said the competition is designed to promote the birth of more businesses that can end poverty, protect the planet and ensure prosperity for all. “The competition will ensure that female led startups gain exposure, valuable feedback and grants to take their businesses to the next level. The programme would include a pitch competition, presentations from business experts and a question and answer session. The goal is to build a network of inclusive businesses and opportunities for collaborations that would assist with promoting business sustainability across Africa over the next 10 years.” Among the winners for the 2018 edition were Olabanke Subair (Cyrus45), Titi Medunoye (Milky Express) and Tunde Oni (Smileon Foods) while 2019 winners were Tabitha Abimiku (Virtuous Pads), Maryam Salami (Mobaby Care) and Oluebube Akah (Aga’s Wholesome Foods). According to the organisers, this year’s edition, which is sponsored by Platform Capital, promises to be bigger and better. “We are taking the whole process online and we look forward to meeting amazing female entrepreneurs from all over Nigeria. To qualify, your business has to be running for at least a year, you must be earning revenue already, must be a woman and said business must be operational in Nigeria.” She revealed that the winner would smile home with a N1.5m grant, mentorship, global accelerator and opportunity to get $100k in equity funding and workspace whilst the first runner up would get a million Naira in grant money, mentorship and workspace with the second runner up going home with half a million Naira, mentorship opportunity and a workspace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .