Nehemiah Adejor, who drove the car that killed Air Force Officer, Tolulope Arotile, will be charged for culpable homicide and criminal conspiracy, but will not face capital punishment. This is just as the Kaduna State Magistrate Court 1 set two other suspects, Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji, free. When the case came up yesterday, the prosecution counsel, DSP Martins Leo, prayed the court to discharge the second and third suspects, as investigation did not find them wanting. Ruling on the motion, the Magistrate, Benjamin Hassan, discharged the two suspects based on police investigation, which did not find them wanting, and the legal advice from the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP), Bayero Dari, that they had no case to answer. According to the legal advice read in the open court, there is no premeditation in the death of the flying officer, but there is sufficient evidence to prosecute Adejor for culpable homicide not punishable with death. The advice read in part: “The first suspect, full of enthusiasm, recklessly reversed the car to meet the deceased and in the process ran over her, consequent upon which the deceased lay unconsciously on the ground. The deceased was rushed to NAFX64 Base Hospital for medical attention, but was later pronounced dead by doctors. “Police investigation reveals that all the suspects attended the same secondary school with the deceased, and upon sighting her, the first suspect recklessly reversed the car and eventually ran over the deceased. “The first suspect admitted in his cautionary statement that on July 14, 2020, he was together with the two other suspects in a KIA Sorento he was driving, when he saw the deceased walking along the roadside of the Air force Base. “He informed the other suspects who screamed enthusiastically after which he stopped and started reversing the car in order to meet the deceased and exchange pleasantries. In the process, he mistakenly ran over her and she died. He denied having any premeditated plan to kill her.” According to the advice, it is clear from the investigation that the second and third suspects were passengers and friends of the first suspect. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Kaduna State Police Command, ASP Muhammad Jalige, said the prime suspect would be arraigned at the State High Court on September 3, 2020 for culpable homicide not punishable with death, based on the DPP’s advice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .