Yerima urges BIM leader to sustain non-violent agitation
Leader of Biafra Independent Movement (BIM), Ralph Uwazuruike, has said that the struggle and realisation of Biafra is non-negotiable and will continue. Addressing the leadership of Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF) led by Shettima Yerima at the weekend, in Owerri, Imo State, Uwazuruike stressed that he would continue to lead the struggle to its realisation. He told the delegation made up of some Northern traditional rulers and Arewa youths that the struggle for Biafra was divine, adding that his movement would sustain the agitation non-violently. “Though our struggle is non-violent, we will continue to push until the goal is achieved. Igboland is very safe for the Northerners to invest. I call on investors from the North to come and invest in Igbo land,” he said. Uwazuruike promised to continue ensuring that Northerners living and doing businesses in Imo were protected while they live in peace with their host communities.
On his part, Yerima said they came on a solidarity visit to the BIM leader, essentially to seek sustained peace between the Igbo and Northerners. He advised Uwazuruike to maintain the non-violent posture in the Biafra agitation. “If we, the AYCF, can relate and partner with neighbouring countries, why can’t we relate with Biafra? But if Biafra must go, it has to be non-violent,” he stated. The AYCF leader also pledged to protect the Igbo living in the northern part of Nigeria, while expecting such anywhere in the country. He regretted the quit notice AYCF issued to the Igbo in the North sometime ago, clarifying that it was only targeted at corrupt leaders in Igboland. “The quit notice was never to create disharmony or fight between the two tribes, but we noticed that some elements are working against the interest of the Igbo; hence the quit notice,” Yerima said, thanking Uwazuruike for hosting him and his group, while praying for sustenance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .