 Sanwo-Olu. Photo: FOLIO  Lagos State chapters of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have engaged in accusations and counter-accusations over the selection of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu by the ruling APC to head the Ondo State governorship poll campaign council. In a reaction to the development, the state’s Publicity Secretary of PDP, Taofik Gani, in a statement, yesterday, raised the alarm of most likely diversion of Lagos funds into the Ondo State governorship contest. The PDP said the selection of Sanwo-Olu as head of the governorship campaign council could not be for his political experience but because the APC intends to use Lagos State funds to sponsor the elections. It also alleged that it had already been hinted that Sanwo-Olu has approved N25 billion to support Ize-Iyamu in Edo. The party has, therefore, urged the Lagos State Commissioner for Finance and the Accountant-General of the state to prepare for accountability within this period of Edo and Ondo governorship elections. However, Lagos APC Publicity Secretary, Mr. Seye Oladejo, has described PDP’s accusation as mere nauseating and part of the opposition’s occasional vituperation. According to Oladejo, “this characteristic wild and reckless allegation has shown the consistency of the warped state of mind of a frustrated opposition party that is determined to sell falsehood to the people. The false and unfounded allegation of the intention to divert resources of Lagos State is at best an admission of what obtains in the PDP whenever there is an election.” Oladejo noted that it was laughable that the PDP described Sanwo-Olu as lacking political experience after successfully and effortlessly retiring the opposition party in the last 2019 governorship election in Lagos. MEANWHILE, the Ondo State APC Elders Committee has urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to sustain his closeness with the committee as the party prepares for the October 10, 2020 governorship election in the state.
[a]d
The committee, in a communique  in Akure yesterday signed by its Chairman, Senator Olorunnimbe Farukanmi, also commended the governor for uniting all aggrieved factions in the state. The elders urged other asprants that participated in the primary to co-operate with the governor in all respects. IN another development, the Yoruba World Congress (YWC) has commended Akeredolu for the official inauguration of the regional security outfit, code-named Amotekun Corps. he leader of the Congress, Prof. Banji Akintoye, who gave the commendation yesterday, said that the move showed that the governor was serious about the security initiative and not engaged in mere lip service or political shenanigan. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .