Rihanna for Harper’s Bazaar | Gray Sorrenti Rihanna is a fashion icon and also making big waves in the beauty industry so we expect nothing less than perfection from her. The singer turned business mogul is the cover star of Haper’s Bazaar September issue and she looked absolutely drop-dead-gorgeous. The 32-year-old multiple award-winning entrepreneur looked flawless in a bunch of amazing outfits for the magazine. The issue featured two separate covers and on the first one, RiRi had her hair slicked back into a bun with two tight double braids framing her head. A bold red lip and a smokey eye completed her glam while a thick layered pearl Anabela Chan Choker necklace and Maria Tash earrings completed her look. To complement this look, she donned an oversized button-down white Fenty dress. Rihanna for Harper’s Bazaar | Gray Sorrenti On the second cover, the Barbadian beauty wore a massive oversized yellow Bottega Veneta coat with a fringe hem on top of a nude halter dress by the same designer. A pair of Harry Kotlar studs and Fenty Beauty Cheeks Out FreestyleCream Bronzer in Hunnie Glaze completed her look. One of the most eye-catching photos from the shoot has to be the one of her taking out the garbage outside while showing off her long, toned legs. Rihanna | Harper Bazaar’s | Gray Sorrenti For this shot, she wore an Artifact NY vintage t-shirt with no pants except for black lace Savage X Fenty bikini bottoms and sheer black tights. She topped her look off with a pair of black Fenty sunglasses, a diamond Yvan Tufenkjian choker, an Amwaj necklace, black leather Gaspar Gloves gloves, and hot pink peep-toe Amina Muaddi slip-on shoes. Rihanna for Harper Bazaar’s | Gray Sorrenti Another favourite shot pictured her in black and white. She can be seen sitting in a tree while wearing an off-the-shoulder One of a Kind Archive John Galliano vintage dress with furry sleeves and a matching furry neckline. She styled the distressed dress with a pair of Maria Tash earrings. Rihanna also rocked an off-the-shoulder One of a Kind Archive John Galliano vintage dress with furry sleeves & a matching neckline, styled with a pair of Maria Tash earrings. Rihanna for Harper’s Bazaar | Gray Sorrenti