The Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union, (COEASU), has given the federal government another 14 days ultimatum to address lingering and emerging issues of an industrial concern, which it says affects its members. In a letter of ultimatum to the minister of education, Adamu Adamu, general secretary of the union Taiwo Olayanju said the 14 days extension was coming after the expiration of the earlier 21 days ultimatum issued by the union, which it said the government was yet to respond to. Olayanju noted that the refusal of the government to address the issues raised in the earlier ultimatum further qualifies governments insensitivity to issues bordering on the advancement of the nation’s teacher education industry. “Please, recall that our Union, following the decision of her Expanded National Executive Council (ENEC) meeting, issued a 21-day ultimatum within which the Federal Government was expected to address lingering and emerging issues of industrial concern, vide a memo reference no. COEASU/NS/01/19, dated 13th July 2020. As acknowledged, your office was in receipt of the memo on 15th July, 2020. “We are, however, irked by the fact that your office till date is yet to find time in any way or pay attention in any form to our demands and ultimatum. This further qualifies governments insensitivity to issues bordering on the advancement of the nation’s teacher education industry. “Having considered the implication of the insensitivity of the Government to all the issues of industrial concern, as they affect our members specifically, and the Colleges of Education in general, the Union may have no cause to wait any longer after fourteen (14) days, should government’s posture to our plight remain the same, but call on its members to commence a nation-wide strike action that will affect every form of service being currently rendered by them. “The Union, therefore, expects your positive response to this extension of ultimatum so as to forestall a possible industrial action.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .