Nigerian singer and songwriter Azeez Adeshina Fashola, known professionally as Naira Marley, and his manager Seyi Awonuga on Thursday pleaded guilty to violation of interstate travel ban. The duo were arraigned by the police on one count charge of breach of the cessation of movement and interstate travel order made by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria under Regulation 4(i) of the Lagos State Infectious Disease Emergency Prevention) Regulation No 2 of 2020. The spokesman of police in Lagos Bala Elkana, said Naira Marley and Awonuga committed an offence punishable under Section 58 Public Health Law, Ch. P16, Laws of Lagos State 2015. During the adjudication of the case at the Lagos State Special Offences (Mobile) Court, Oshodi, the two pleaded guilty to the charge and were awarded a fine of one hundred thousand naira each by the presiding magistrate. In June, Naira Marley performed at a concert in Abuja despite the interstate travel ban and social distancing rules aimed at curbing the spread of Covid-19. An ex-Big Brother Naija housemate, Kim Oprah, was the event anchor. The concert was put together by Play Network Africa, Traffic Bar, El’Carnival, and was sponsored by Glenfiddich. Naira Marley, 26, and Oprah shared videos of themselves inside a private jet owned by Jetlyfe, en route Abuja and upon arriving in the federal capital. This makes it the second time he would be arraigned for violating the COVID-19 precautionary rules set by the government. In April, the artiste was picked up by the police for violating the lockdown rules in Lagos State by attending a house party organised by actress, Funke Akindele, and her husband Abdul Rasheed Bello. He was later released after tendering a written apology to the Lagos State Government and signing an undertaking that he would comply with the government’s stay-at-home and social distancing directives; and that he would go into 14-day self-isolation, having attended a crowded birthday party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .