Nigerians on Twitter have slammed former minister of petroleum resources Diezani Alison-Madueke over her comment on internet fraudsters known as “Yahoo Yahoo boys”. The former minister said at a virtual event organised by Ijaw National Development Group that “Yahoo Yahoo boys” are respected in the society. Footages from the event were posted to Twitter by Jackson Ude, the publisher of Point Blank News. “The ones that have swag, the Yahoo Yahoo boys, as my son would say; these in short, are the role models they are looking at. These are the ones that reinforce negative societal norms and values,” Diezani said. “This is a travesty of an unfolding tragedy for us. Why have I spent time talking about fatherless homes and the impact it has on our children? The truth of the matter is that an irresponsible boy tends to become an irresponsible man and it is, therefore, a vicious cycle. If you plant yam, you cannot harvest plantain.” Diezani who is currently facing allegations of bribery and money laundering in London and Nigeria highlighted the importance of mentorship for young people, saying only hard work could guarantee success. Although the long-running British probe into Diezani has yet to yield any charges, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has pending corruption charges against her. Some of the properties linked to her have been forfeited to the Nigerian government while the recently Suspended EFCC chairman Ibrahim Magu in February said she allegedly stole so much money that she needed to be extradited to the country to return them all. Nigerians on Twitter, however, nicknamed Diezani “Hush Mummy”, a name derived from the alias of a popular Nigerian fraudster Ramon Olorunwa Abbas, popularly known as Huspuppi. Hushpuppi was arrested earlier in June along with Olalekan Jacob Ponle, also known as Woodberry and 10 others. The gang was responsible for Dh1.6 billion (about N169 billion) fraud involving over 1.9 million victims. Items worth N15.845 billion (Dh 150 million) were also seized. Here are Nigerians reactions to Diezani’s comment. Hushmummy, another fugitive, criticised Yahoo Yahoo Boys. The audacity, boldness and temerity. Because there are no serious consequences for looting the Nigerian treasury. — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) August 10, 2020  It’s really funny to wake up and see yahoo yahoo trending because of one political thief, Madueke Diezani who is the real OG, hushmummy herself  pic.twitter.com/deLUswAfHp — _official (@starkiidd01) August 10, 2020  All your boy friends are yahoo boys yet you are asking that legit hustler to buy you data. O wrong now. I’m new here. Kindly follow me, I follow back ASAP. PowerPoint || Hushmummy || Aunty. pic.twitter.com/JSH0hDgdXQ — #bbnaija2020 || Ella  (@madmoisella1) August 10, 2020  Yahoo or no Yahoo, once you have money in this Nigeria, you have become a role model.
Diezani alias Hushmummy have spoken well. Ooin pic.twitter.com/7nTSCflLjZ — Mr Don (@AdetunbiSadiq) August 10, 2020  This is Diezani aka Hushmummy, Asking for more grace to overtake Hushpuppi This life no go ever balance again…  pic.twitter.com/wUQoTqJMew — Minister (@Miinnister) August 10, 2020  No shame at all! Crazy woman. — Toolz O.D (@ToolzO) August 10, 2020  I feel this whole situation about Nigeria, Diezani the Hushmummy calling out yahoo boys, Magu & pastor with EFCC, the whole #EnoughIsEnough saga should be acted in movie for the purpose of seeing what’s going on in the country outside of it becos we partially blind inside it. — AVE (@ekeneachuagu) August 10, 2020  This exactly the reason #Hushmummy Diezani Alison-Madueke @diezanimadueke came out hiding talking about “Yahoo Yahoo” boys, she’s @MalamiSan’s role model. We need #RevolutionNow fast! #Nogoingback #RemoveTheStones pic.twitter.com/npwGYOFL6r — Omoyele Sowore (@YeleSowore) August 10, 2020  No be Nigeria we dey? Diezani Alison-Madueke AKA “Hushmummy” may be granted presidential pardon. She may even be a presidential candidate in the 2023 elections. Tell me it’s not possible in this cruise country of ours Mama!! Na you be dia role model jor : Yahoo boys — Fᥱmι Crᥲᥱ (@femicrae) August 10, 2020  This video of Diezani Alison Madueke bashing “Yahoo Yahoo” boys shock me o. Is this video recently recorded? How come Oga Dele Momodu no tell us say Hushmummy don well? Abeg make she come back to Nigeria. EFCC just dey fool us these while sha 
pic.twitter.com/5nBVRyjSOx — HENRY O (@GidiLover) August 10, 2020  Diezani madueke is the real hushmummy. Inspired Billions.
Stole trillions. A legend. G.O.A.T pic.twitter.com/dPt0BF2AnO — CHESKY (@tweetsofchesky) August 10, 2020  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .