The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, to declare Yakubu Dogara’s seat vacant in seven days or they proceed to legal action. The former Speaker, Dogara had on July 24 defected from PDP to the All Progressives Congress. But in a copy of the letter made available to The Guardian, the PDP wants
Yakubu Dogara, the member representing Dass, Tafawa Balewa and Bogoro Federal Constituency in Bauchi State at the House of Representatives removed. The letter reads: “It is against the background of the foregoing that we demand your invocation of the provisions of Section 68(1)(g) and (2) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) by declaring his seat vacant consequent upon his said defection within (7) working days of the receipt this notice. “This comes with the further notice that upon your refusal, failure or neglect to heed this demand, we shall proceed to commence legal action against you in a competent Court of law thereby bringing to the fore the import of the famous legal maxim that says: “product agit qui praecepto legis obtemperial” i.e “he sho acts prudently who obeys the command of laws” in the context of your pledge to uphold justice, the rule of law and the deepening of democratic processes as captured in your inaugural address as the Speaker of the 9th Assembly in the House of Representatives.” The letter was written by S. Rabo Esq., J. S. Jihrin Esq., A. S. Idris Esq and H.S.Saraki Esq and copied to minority leader, members representing Zaki and Gamawa federal constituencies of the Bauchi. Reacting to PDP’s request for Dogara’s removal, Tafawa Balewa, Dass and Bogoro Youth Development Foundation’s chairman Emmanuel Isheni said that Dogara remains the representative of his constituency of which the constituents are ready to follow him to any party. Emmanuel said, “no one is capable of unseating him except those who elected him. 99 per cent of the people from the three LGAs are with. “We want to tell the good people of Tafawa Balewa/Dass/Bogoro Federal Constituency, Bauchi State and Nigeria politics that Dogara understands the system of this country. We are firmly behind him and we pledge our support to him at all ramifications.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .