Burna Boy, Drake and Fireboy DML There was almost an overdose of new songs last week as various artists unleashed music on Friday. The most anticipated, “Twice As Tall”, the fifth studio album from Burna Boy was streamed over 5 million times within an hour after it was released. Straight from last Friday, here are 7 songs that we think you should listen to: “Monsters You Made” – Burna Boy ft. Chris Martin
Burna Boy’s husky voice interspersed with a chorus from Cold Play’s Chris Martin is one collaboration we never knew we needed. On this fiery track, Burna Boy calls out the lies and misconstrued western storytelling on Africa. He went as far as name-calling Mungo Park and “the fool that said they found river Niger”. This song is sure to start a fire inside of you. “Tattoo” – Fireboy DML
If you have a sex playlist *winks* it needs to be updated with this luscious serenade presented in a silky voice that lures you to do sensual things or whatever it was that Fireboy was trying to achieve with this song. And it is quite deserving of the video that accompanied it. “Wetin Dey Sup” – Burna Boy
On this track, you can’t decide if you want to dance or sing along to Burna Boy’s braggadocious claims. Well, since you can do both at the same time “Put your cap to the back” and “Start to dey dance”. “Laugh Now Cry Later” – Drake ft. Lil Durk
Drake always delivers – that’s more of a fact than a statement. On this mellow song Drak and Lil Durk rap about living the high-life, enjoying now and worrying later. The video which was shot at Nike headquarters in Beaverton, Oregon features cameo appearances from Nike athletes such as Odell Beckham Jr., Marshawn Lynch and Kevin Durant. Yes, we know, the video gives off a Nike advert vibe. “PAMI” – DJ Tunez ft Wizkid, Adekunle Gold and Omah Lay
You wouldn’t want to be caught dancing to this song alone. So grab your lover and swing your waist to this tune by DJ Tunez (pun intended). “Pami” literally means “kill me” and we can’t get over how the featured artistes killed (pun unintended) their verses on this song. “Karma” – Cuppy ft. Stonebwoy
Cuppy enlists Ghanaian singer Stonebwoy for this Afro-reggae tune. “So Done” – Alicia Keys ft. Khalid
This is the perfect outro to this list. “So Done” is the first collaboration between Alicia Keys and Khalid.