• Jilted lover commits suicide in Rivers
The Lagos State Police Command has revealed that its operatives have successfully foiled eight suicide attempts in the state in the last two months. The command also called on well-meaning individuals to always reach out to the needy and underprivileged persons around them.
 
This was disclosed yesterday by the command’s spokesperson, SP Bala Elkana, who narrated how a graduate attempted suicide on the Third Mainland Bridge, because he could not repay a loan of N500,000 lost on a failed business.
 
He said: “Officers of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) deployed to the Third Mainland Bridge intercepted the 45-year-old man identified as Adeyinka Abiodun as he tried to jump into the lagoon at about 1:50p.m. on July 31.”  Meanwhile, a middle-aged man popularly called Tailor has committed suicide in Rivers States with sources alleging betrayal from his lover. It was gathered that the incident occurred at about 10:00p.m. on Saturday at Omuokiri Village, Aluu community in Ikwerre Local Government Area of the state. The man was said to have hung himself after his lover decided to abandon the relationship. A neighbour, who spoke in confidence, said Tailor, who hailed from Kogi State but resided in Aluu, killed himself when his lover visited on the fateful night to call it quit. He said other neighbours intervened to resolve the matter, but the lady remained adamant and moved her belongings out of the man’s house. The source said: “The incident happened last night. The young man was with his girlfriend in the room and they had problems. The lady said she was no longer interested in the relationship. She packed her things and left the house.
It was later that one of our neighbours found out that Tailor had hung himself. “As I speak to you now, there is trouble in the compound because the people of Aluu said it is a taboo in their area. They have locked the gate and asked everybody to pack out till traditional cleansing is done in the compound.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .