 (FILES) In this file photo taken on February 14, 2020 silhouettes are seen in front of the logo of US social media Facebook in Brussels. – More than 100 American business leaders sent a letter to top Congressional lawmakers on August 3, 2020, urging them to lay aside partisan bickering and approve emergency aid for small businesses suffering during the coronavirus pandemic. Leaders of companies like Walmart, Facebook, Google-parent Alphabet and Starbucks warned of a “catastrophic” impact on the economy and employment if federal aid is withheld from companies dealing with the devastating impact of the COVID-19 shutdowns. (Photo by Kenzo TRIBOUILLARD / AFP)  The new group, called Facebook Financial, will be headed by e-commerce veteran David Marcus, who was a president at PayPal before joining the leading social network six years ago. Marcus is one of the creators of Facebook’s digital money network Libra and heads the team building a Novi digital wallet tailored for the currency. The Novi wallet — set to launch when Libra coins debut — promises to give Facebook opportunities to build financial services into its offerings, offer to expand its own commerce and let more small businesses buy ads on the social network. Facebook Financial will handle management and strategy for all payments and money services across the Silicon Valley company’s platform. “Today various payments features exist across our apps, and we want to make sure decision making, execution and compliance are not fragmented,” Facebook said in an email reply to an AFP inquiry. “We want to be able to give people the ability to make a payment however they choose — debit, credit or Libra digital currencies.” Noting security concerns posed by Facebook’s yet-to-be-launched digital currency Libra, the Federal Reserve last week revealed plans for its own instant payments system. FedNow will provide households and businesses with instant access to payments, for wages, government benefits or sales, without waiting days for checks to clear, the Fed said. The system, which is not due to launch for two to three years, “will be designed to maintain uninterrupted 24x7x365 processing with security features to support payment integrity and data security,” the central bank said. Facebook’s announcement last year of plans to design the Libra cryptocurrency and payments system raised immediate red flags for global finance officials who expressed a barrage of withering criticism about the security and reliability of a private network. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .