 Direct aviation job losses this month climbed to 149,400 in Nigeria. Photo: cio  On the African continent, Nigeria is second to South Africa that has the likelihood of losing up to 300,000 jobs and $5.8 billion in aviation revenue.
  
IATA’s new date showed that the impact of COVID-19 on Africa’s aviation industry and economies had worsened sharply since the previous assessment in April.  According to ICAO, Rwanda is among the first countries in the world to have fully complied with ICAO’s biosecurity recommendations.
  
Regional Director, ESAF, Barry Kashambo, speaking on behalf of the ICAO Regional Offices accredited to African States ICAO, said: “We recognise the efforts and actions by Rwanda and some other states, to fully implement the provisions of ICAO CART recommendations and Take-off guidance and measures. We encourage all governments in Africa to prioritise the restart of aviation and to tap into its potential as an enabler to Africa’s economic recovery post COVID-19. Air connectivity is critical to economic and sustainable development and the movement of persons across the continent.”
  
Continued financial and regulatory support, particularly financial relief—that does not increase industry debt levels—through direct cash injections, credit or loans and deferrals or discounts on user charges are essential to support airlines over the restart and recovery period.  
  
“We are grateful to the few African governments that have provided relief to aviation so far – Rwanda, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire, Burkina Faso and recently Cabo Verde. Their actions have helped save thousands of jobs, and will enable some airlines to restart and support the wider economies they serve. But the situation is worsening.
  
“Continued relief measures are essential to minimise job losses and ensure that connectivity can be restored. We urge African governments and the development institutions who have committed funding to provide it urgently in a structure that does not weaken already stressed airline balance sheets, before it is too late,” Al Bakri said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .