fairtrade (www.fairtrade-messe.de), the Germany based organiser behind the leading agrofood & plastprintpack trade shows in Algeria, Ethiopia, Ghana, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Kenya and Nigeria launch a new event called Virtual agrofood & plastprintpack Africa, taking place 19 to 22 October 2020.  The four-day digital event is to provide a platform for valuable business contacts between leading global manufacturers and top buyers from the African agrofood & plastprintpack industry. It offers an AI-backed matchmaking platform. Every exhibitor has his profile and logo and the picture of his stand rep as part of his virtual booth from which he can show corporate videos, showcase his products, talk to his visitors via instant video calls, live stream product demos and much more. For visitors, the event is free to attend. In addition to the B2B meetings, the event offers conferences with inspiring speakers and relevant content, webinars, workshops, roundtables, live demos, panel sessions and product launches. Events designed to capture the situation in certain African countries and regions are dedicated to Algeria & the Maghreb, Egypt, Nigeria, Ghana, Ivory Coast & West Africa as well as Ethiopia, Kenya & East Africa. Paul Maerz, Managing Director at fairtrade says: “Virtual agrofood & plastprintpack Africa is a direct response to what our trade visitor network has told us they need – an opportunity to meet with suppliers, source new products, network with existing and new business contacts as well as a place to be inspired and learn. All this on an African scale. We are delighted to build on our 30 years of experience as organisers of agrofood & plastprintpack events to create a digital platform that serves the African and global community in these unprecedented times.” A huge market: Facts and figures on Africa’s agrofood & plastprintpack imports For more information: www.virtual-africa.net Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Fairtrade Messe und Ausstellungs GmbH & Co. KG. Contact for press and media:
fairtrade Messe GmbH & Co. KG
Mr Luca Leiser
Public Relations
Kurfürsten-Anlage 36
D-69115 Heidelberg
Tel +49 / 62 21 / 45 65 22
l.maerz@fairtrade-messe.de
www.fairtrade-messe.de Contact for exhibitors:
fairtrade Messe GmbH & Co. KG
Ms Freyja Detjen
Project Management
Kurfürsten-Anlage 36
D-69115 Heidelberg
Tel +49 / 62 21 / 45 65 19
f.detjen@fairtrade-messe.de
www.fairtrade-messe.de About fairtrade – Valuable business:
fairtrade (www.fairtrade-messe.de) was founded by Martin März in 1991. Since long, fairtrade ranks among the leading organisers of professional international trade fairs in emerging markets, especially in North and sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. Managed by its shareholder and his son Paul März and committed to the values of a family business and the team spirit, fairtrade maintains a powerful network of partnerships throughout the world. fairtrade organizes shows in the sectors Agrofood, PlastPrintPack, CIT Solutions, Energy and Industry and strives for a high level of customer satisfaction. By means of innovative products and excellent service fairtrade organizes professional platforms for valuable business contacts between exhibitors and visitors. fairtrade is a member of UFI The Global Association of the Exhibition Industry. The management is ISO 9001:2015 certified. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .