 Papa Ajao Motor Park, Lagos  However, the situation was not peculiar to this particular motor park located in Ojota. Investigation by The Guardian showed that similar scenarios obtain in many other motor parks in Lagos State, the centre of excellence. Descent To Chaos
LAGOS State government has been assuring residents of his determination to transform the state into a mega city. But, the situation of most motor parks in the state still manifest a descent into chaos, because they lack such basic amenities such as functional public toilet and refuse bins.
   
Seeing commercial drivers and commuters urinating beside parked vehicles or at hidden corners around the parks is a common sight at different parts of Lagos, thus flaring the offensive stench that describe them.
 
In some instances however, though provisions were made for mobile toilets, perhaps the unwillingness of the public to pay stipulated fees for services and poor enforcement make the ugly practices to continue.
 
Add to that is the lack of aesthetic finishing around the parks which sustains the poor hygiene and ugly atmosphere around them. Some commentators observed that much difference would have been made if the amount of money being generated daily at the parks, part of which goes into government coffers, are ploughed into maintenance and construction of modern facilities.
 
The dilapidated state of almost all motor parks in the state has become a source of concern to residents who complain that the parks are not only disorganised, dirty and dusty, but also not befitting the state as the commercial hub of Africa. Complaints Galore
When The Guardian visited Yaba, Oshodi, Ikorodu, Iyana Isolo, Fatai Atere, and Mushin motor parks, it was discovered that not only were the garages littered with refuse, the roads leading into the parks were also in a terrible state of disrepair. And as usual, many of the parks lacked conveniences for commuters.
 
Some commuters, who expressed dissatisfaction over the development, lamented that despite the high amount of money they pay as fares, there has not been any improvement in the handling of the parks over the years.
 
Mrs. Florence Ituah, a passenger on her way to Ibadan from Oshodi Park, lamented the absence of better parks in the state, saying she regretted going there to board a bus.  When The Guardian visited the popular Lawanson to Ijesha Motor Park in Yaba, it was discovered that there was no public toilet for commuters. The chairman of the park, Mr. Ahmed, explained that the reason for the lack of toilet was due to the location of the garage, which is by the roadside.  A driver plying Idi Araba to Ojuelegba said: “Our garage is by the roadside. Most times, our passengers don’t ask for public toilets, as they somehow find ways to take care of themselves in that regard. It would be a good idea, if government could look into the problem. Most of us cross to the other side of the road to ease ourselves or look for any available space around to use.”Toluwalashe Ogunleye, a resident of Idi Araba wondered why most parks don’t have good toilets. “ I wonder where the money goes and what it is used for,” he said. “Even if government is not ready to provide public toilets in parks, I think chairmen of motor parks should also look into the matter and make provision for toilet facilities.” A commuter, Mr. Segun, said: “Most times, I use public toilet and pay. But when I am going on a long distance journey, I take some precautionary measures, which include not eating or drinking before leaving the house, to avoid embarrassment. Even if government provide public toilets in motor parks, is there any assurance that it will be clean at all times?” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .