‘DICON will supply military equipment to fight terrorism’ The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has said that the attack on Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum in Baga is not military sabotage. Following the conclusion of investigation into the attack, the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, stated in Abuja yesterday that the governor’s accusation of the army as responsible for the unfortunate incident had been found to be untrue. “We have investigated the governor’s claims and found them to be false.” Zulum had alleged that some elements in the army were trying to frustrate the effort of the government in ending the insurgency. His words: “We analysed the video. Even from the gunshot, you will discover that it is not the conventional weapon that we use.” He reiterated the commitment of the armed forces in ridding the nation of its myriad security challenges.
DEFENCE Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON), Kaduna State, says it is working round the clock to meet the armed forces’ demands of more military hardware to fight against terrorism in the country. Director-General of DICON, Major Gen. Victor Ezugwu, made this known while receiving the leadership of Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) who were in Kaduna to see how the company was faring and to see possible areas of collaboration. Ezugwu expressed the readiness of Nigeria’s premier military industry to partner with the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) to promote local content in its productions. Fielding questions from newsmen shortly after the visit at DICON, Ezugwu hinted that the company was using a little above 40 per cent local content in its production, with the aim of reaching about 55 per cent by the end of the year. President of NSE, Babagana Mohammed, commended the company for putting local content development on the front burner, saying the Federal Government should deliberately support local content in the overall interest of the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .