Former International, Adegoke Adelabu, has described the appointment of Daniel Amokachi as the Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari, as a good development, adding that it will not only bring orderliness, but also provide solutions in needed areas.Amokachi was last week appointed Special Assistant on Sports, with the sole responsibility to advise President Muhammadu Buhari on all sports matters. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Adelabu stated that Amokachi’s new position was an opportunity for sportsmen and women to channel their ideas and worries directly through the right quarters for urgent attention. “Amokachi’s new role may depend on what exactly they want him to do. I think we will have to wait and see the modalities and practicality of it. This is the kind of position we proposed to government in the past. At least, government has started something. This is the position I have been advocating for years. At least, it will expand the platform of operations of our sports administration. “For a post like that, one might need a specialist in the realm of sports area and not just because one has participated in sports. Anyway, it is even good that we have something like that now and let’s see the impact it will make in the administration of sports in the country,” he said, adding that the creation of the new post was a result of the Presidency not receiving enough information on sports development. “May be they’re thinking the minister is not functioning well as they would have expected, because if he is functioning well, I don’t think there will be any need of an intermediary between the Presidency and the sports minister. When you read some articles on sports, sometimes, you ask yourself if the Presidency knows what is going on. “May be by appointing Amokachi, the people at the Presidency may want to have a first hand information as regards issues of sports in the country. We will wait and see how things will turn out at the end of the day. I also think may be they need more hands to assist the sports minister with the array of things that we have on ground. “We are a nation and since order comes from the Presidency, there is need for the minister to align himself with Amokachi and see how they can work together in tandem with the vision of government. This new development will provide sportsmen and women platform to function well. It’s indeed a good news for us as sportsmen,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .