 Plateau United failed to scale the Etoile du Sahel hurdle the last time the Jos-based team played in the CAF Champions League.  Plateau United qualified to represent Nigeria in the CAF Champions League following their top finish in the 2019/2020 season, which was suspended halfway due to the coronavirus outbreak. A few seasons ago, Plateau United qualified to play in the same Champions League, but the club was forced to play their matches in Kano due to the bad state of the Jos stadium. The result was that they could not make the best of their home advantage and failed to go beyond the qualifying round. Reacting to a tweet by popular Nigerian league blogger, @NPFLInsider, which states, “Plateau United may still have to play their #CAFCL games outside of Jos if the proposed renovation work isn’t done on time,” the fans called on Governor Simon Lalong to wade into the rehabilitation of the arena to secure it for the CAF Champions League. “Bad for Plateau United. The Governor should do something. That was how we got kicked out of the Champions League few seasons back because we were using venue outside Jos. “Etoile du Sahel felt more adapted playing under hot Kano sun than Plateau United, the home team,” a fan, who identified himself as @Zumji3, said. Another fan said, “My governor, come and see ooooo. For five years now, you have just been sinking money into one project that has refused to finish (sic). Our boys have done us proud twice under you, but Kano is enjoying the benefits of our championship victory. Do something fast.” Reacting to the anxiety expressed by the fans, Plateau State Commissioner for Sports, Victor Lanpang, said there was no cause to raise the alarm over the venue for Plateau United’s Champions League games. Speaking in an interview published by ojbsport.com, Lanpang said there’s an ongoing plan to fix the Rwang Pam Township Stadium, and are working with the ministry of housing to meet CAF standard. “There will be an upgrade on the stadium that will meet CAF requirement, hoping work will start soon,” he said. 
 He also assured the fans that the team has been preparing for the competition despite the suspension of sporting activities in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .