The leading pan-African banking group, Ecobank (https://Ecobank.com/), is delighted to announce that it has won the Award for Innovation in Financial Services at the 2020 edition of the prestigious African Banker magazine Awards. The Awards, which reward banking excellence in Africa, were announced at a virtual ceremony held on 26th August.  The African Banker’s judging process sought to recognise the African banks that have demonstrated original and practical uses of technology to provide customer convenience, improved and more affordable services and greater access to the financial services sector in Africa.  Ade Ayeyemi, Group Chief Executive Officer said: “Winning the Award for Innovation in Financial Services from the African Banker magazine is such an honour. It provides public recognition of our pioneering role in harnessing technology to complement our pan-African presence and partnerships, to deliver accessible, convenient, affordable and innovative banking products which are making a difference to millions of lives and businesses across sub-Saharan Africa. Five years ago, we commenced a digital transformation journey to transform our banking products and services.  This award attests to the success of that journey and we are delighted that our significant investment in technology is yielding the desired results.”  “Our one bank model, powered by our robust pan-African banking digital platform provides diverse products and services to governments and corporate clients using our digital platforms including  Ecobank Omni Plus amongst others, Ecobank Omni Lite for our SMEs and commercial bank clients as well as our Ecobank Mobile App and Ecobank Online for our consumer clients.  These are in addition to the highly effective cash management, transaction banking solutions and our cross-border Rapidtransfer remittance solution – a few of the headline-grabbing innovations that we have delivered to meet and exceed the evolving needs and expectations of our customers. I applaud all my Ecobank colleagues for their continued commitment and dedication to serving our customers especially during these challenging COVID-19 times.”  Other African banking awards won by Ecobank so far in 2020 include amongst others, Most Innovative Bank in Africa, Best Bank for Payments& Collections, Best Integrated Corporate Banking Site in Africa (Global Finance) and the Best Bank for Corporate Responsibility (Euromoney Awards for Excellence).  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ecobank. Media Contact:
Christiane Bossom
Group Communications Manager 
Email: groupcorporatecomms@ecobank.com
Tel: +228 22 21 03 03  About Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’ or ‘The Group’):
Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’)(https://Ecobank.com/) is the parent company of the Ecobank Group, the leading independent pan-African banking group. The Ecobank Group employs over 14,800 people and serves about 24 million customers in the consumer, commercial and corporate banking sectors across 33 African countries. The Group has a banking license in France and representative offices in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Johannesburg, South Africa; Beijing, China; London, the UK and Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. The Group offers a full suite of banking products, services and solutions including bank and deposit accounts, loans, cash management, advisory, trade, securities, wealth and asset management. ETI is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchanges in Lagos, the Ghana Stock Exchange in Accra, and the Bourse Régionale des Valeurs Mobilières in Abidjan. For further information please visit www.ecobank.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .