My traducers acting a script, Lekwot replies Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and other prominent Christian leaders have described the call for the execution of Gen. Zamani Lekwot (rtd.) by the Sharia Council of Nigeria as an agenda to set the country ablaze and derail democracy. The National President of CAN, Rev. Supo Ayokunle; the President of ECWA, Rev. Steven Baba; southern Kaduna leaders and other Christian clerics, who were at the ECWA Goodnews Church venue of the protest and prayers session against the killings in southern Kaduna, commended the Federal Government for deploying special military force to the troubled areas. They added that until permanent peace returns and armed Fulani herdsmen arrested and brought to book, the government’s initiative would not be taken seriously. Ayokunle and the other protesters, who carried placards and prayed fervently for God’s intervention in Nigeria, said the Federal Government had not lived up to expectation in ending insecurity in the country. It was unfortunate that some Muslim religious leaders are calling for the execution of Lekwot before peace returns to Kaduna, the CAN president said.His words: “This is to tell the world that some people in this country don’t want us to live in peace. “How can you imagine something that happened 28 years ago in Zangon Kataf and some people are calling for execution of Lekwot and others now, in the midst of crisis in southern Kaduna. Will that help in peace building?” Besides, Baba denounced those promoting evil agenda in the country, saying “unless government stands firm to address the bloody crisis, Nigeria’s economy will continue to nosedive, because no country will come to invest and development will continue to elude the nation.” MEANWHILE, Lekwot, in an interview with newsmen, explained that those that called for his execution were playing a script from the white paper committee recently set up by the state government to review the 1992 Zangon Kataf crisis. “Everyone would die. Nobody will live forever. Those who said what they said, will they not die? No one knows how they will die. “What they said is a replay of a smokescreen, to hide the truth and divert attention. What is the relationship between what happened in Zangon Kataf 28 years ago and the massive killings going on in southern Kaduna and the country?” he wondered. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .