 Boss Mustapha  The Presidential Taskforce (PTF) on COVID-19, which made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja, urged businesses to take advantage of the bailout, stressing that “we cannot afford to let our economy slide.” Meanwhile, of the 14,906 evacuees, 80 per cent were youths, even as 684 of the 13,844 sampled, tested positive for the virus. Also, over 1000 vaccine trials are ongoing globally with varying claims of success levels. PTF chairman and Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who spoke in Abuja, added that Nigeria would keep advocating proven preventive methods to break the transmission of the disease in addition to effective case management. He said the country had noted particularly, the announcement by the President of Russia on the breakthrough in developing a cure “even as we study the developments.” The SGF stressed the need to galvanise the youths for peace building with a view to promoting social cohesion in this era of social distancing geared at checking the spread of the scourge. His words: “The PTF appreciates all our young people who have stepped out and are contributing to the fight against the pandemic and implore others yet to do so, to join this fight with all the necessary passion their youthful energy can bring to bear. I am sure that our risk communication and community engagement strategy would gain a lot of mileage if the various youth organisations and the youths themselves heed this call. “PTF is pleased to associate with the celebration of the International Youth Day 2020 under the theme, ‘Youth Engagement for Global Action’ which seeks to recognise the immense contributions and role of young people in achieving sustainable peace and development across all levels.” Also speaking, Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, pointed out that government was disturbed by the rising infections among healthcare workers. To check the unpalatable trend, he said: “We have made training and retraining of health workers on infection prevention and control a priority.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .