His enthusiasm and joy whenever he hits the golf course indicate that there is something extraordinary that Danie Meyer is getting from playing golf. Many people play golf, but not everybody sees the game as much more than a sport. Meyer does. The prominent member of Ikoyi Golf Club, Lagos may not be as popular as Tiger Woods in the sport, but within the Nigerian golf circle, Meyer has held his own, even among the most talented amateur players in the game.  But his game is not all about laurels. He derives joy and many more from playing golf. Meyer won the 2019 Order of Merit and Club’s Championship best Net-Score at the Ikoyi Club. He also participated in the FBN golf tournament last year, just as he won the hole in one number two in October 2019 during the Lagos Scottish Caledonian Tournament, among many laurels to his credit. The South African, who has been in Nigeria for more than 10 years, credits golf forgiven him the opportunity to expand his business network, describing the game as something that has guided his personal development over the years. He adds that the game keeps him humble, has taught him respect and how to empower people. Among other things, Meyer says, “golf teaches you self-discipline and at the same time you have to take responsibility for what you do. You only have yourself to blame when you play a bad shot”. “Golf provides an opportunity to get rid of the hustle and bustle of each day and to leave the stress behind. Playing a round of golf is like relaxing my mind. I forget about the difficult world out there. It provides me with an opportunity to meet new friends because golfers are very hospitable.” Meyer advises individuals with health challenges to embrace, saying, a round of golf refreshes the mind. “It is like pressing the reset button. And with the outbreak of a pandemic, it was very difficult and depressing for me not to be able to play my favourite sport. Don’t underestimate the emotional damage caused by the lockdown and not being able to play golf.” On the corporate benefits derivable from golf, Meyer reveals that he has demonstrated to his company the benefits of golf and its impact on business, saying Plascon Nigeria, which produces 100 per cent products in Nigeria, has over the years been involved with a number of initiatives and sponsorships. According to Meyer, “One of my proudest moments as CEO was when DOAM Foundation and Plascon renovated the Massey Street Children’s Hospital. My first interaction with DOAM was via golf, and until today I treasure the foundation. It presented an ideal opportunity to introduce our anti-mosquito and antibacterial paint to Nigeria.” Meyer says Plascon has over the years as part of its corporate social responsibilities (CSR) been involved in the FBN Nigeria Amateur Championship, DOAM Charity Golf Tournament, Lagos Scottish Caledonian Society Golf Tourney, and the Ikoyi Ladies Golf Open, adding, “we are currently a sponsor for Leopard’s Ladies Golf event.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .