 Asebizz (middle) after her emergence as Red carpet Queen  Adebizz, who bagged her Bachelor Degree in Micro Biology from PUNE University, INDIA, in 2018, after completing her diploma in Conservation Science at Obafemi Awolowo University, is an entrepreneur and CEO of Adebizz Fingerz, a registered beauty and fashion enterprise in Lagos Nigeria. The Red Carpet Queen 2020 edition, which held on July 31, 2020, at the Red Carpet Mansion, Lagos, was themed, Making A Statement Edition. A total of 45 contestants were selected from a six-month competition of fierce auditions. Eventually, Adebizz beat other eight contestants with her iconic performance in tasks, votes, character and intelligence, to clinch the crown, alongside a cash prize of N500, 000, $USD3,000 skincare training, mentorship and product launch scholarship by COC international Beauty School. She also got one year free make up by Jasmine Empire, one year free photo cover by Judore Studios and others. Meanwhile, Joy Obi (Barbie) from Delta State emerged first runner up and was awarded Red Carpet Queen Glamour, while Winner Okorie (Winishezel) from Abia State is second runner up and was awarded Red Carpet Queen Top Model. They also got $USD1, 000 skincare formulation scholarship each by COC International Beauty School, One year free make up by Jasmine Empire and One year photo cover by Judore Studios. Also, Grace Zikiye from Bayelsa State and Jane Emeka from Anambra State emerged 4th and 5th positions as Red Carpet Queen Photogenic and Red Carpet Queen Congeniality respectively. During the seven days battle in the mansion, Top CEO, Industry Experts and Executives of the supporting brands took turns to visit the contestants to inspire them from their wealth of knowledge, sharing their stories of success in their various endeavours. This indeed lends credence to the excellence the show portrays. Red Carpet Queen International Reality TV Pageant 2020 is powered by Red Carpet On TV Media and supported by Phamatex Industries Ltd, Qualitea Nigeria, Dabinchi Global Ltd, COC International Beauty School, Jasmine Empire, Judore Studios, OhWow PopCorn, Pageant Studio Africa, Rukkies House and Hi Zobo drink. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .