•Tasks youths to key into sports ministry, NFF’s grassroots programmes The recent Confederation of African Football (CAF) decision to begin a Champions League for women clubs in the continent will draw more girls to football, representative of sports wear outfit, Okakuro Group, Ms. Idemabasi Mkpokporo, has said. CAF recently announced that it would start a Champions League for women football clubs in the continent as part of its plans to grow the game in the continent. It also promised to pay more attention to the development of women football through such interventions that would aid its grassroots growth. Speaking at the Lagos National Stadium at the weekend, Ms. Mkpokporo said the CAF idea is a proof that the body is not only futuristic in its actions, but it also aligns with the desires of its members. She added, “before this announcement by CAF, we had been quietly visiting local areas with young women football clubs and schools to see the possibility of helping these young girls realize their ambitions in football.  So CAF’s new initiative has met us well.’ “However, I want to advise federations to key into this novel venture by beginning from the grassroots, which is the starting point and the store house of all kinds of skills and talents in sports. “Governments at all levels and institutions should be committed to this cause by providing the enabling environment and support to train our young girls and educate them properly so that our clubs will have rounded players for the new competition. This we can achieve by organising tournaments for girls at the grassroots.” She revealed that the Okakuro Group has a corporate social investment policy, which enables the performance wear company adopt young women grassroots football clubs and groom them to become great clubs. “Our support for schools sports, starting with football attests to this. Our involvement in FC Bulmaro Free Football Technical Clinic for secondary schools nationwide is aimed at empowering young men and women with the skills to succeed in the game.” She commended the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and the Sports Ministry for their efforts to create the enabling environment for the private sector to key into the sports business, adding that the new structures being built by the Minister, Sunday Dare, if sustained, would change Nigerian football for good.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .