Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) has called on security agencies to investigate the allegation by former presidential candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia. The presidential hopeful, who was Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), had alleged that “one of the Northern governors is the commander of Boko Haram in Nigeria.” Chairman of NGF, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, said the Forum was concerned about the weighty allegation. In a statement signed in Jos yesterday by his Director of Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, he said the Forum, which had been working with the Federal Government, security agencies, communities, civil society, traditional and religious leaders as well as development partners to defeat terrorism, banditry and crimes in the region, found the allegation very weighty and deserving of investigation. Mailafia, on ‘Morning Crossfire’ programme of Nigeria InfoAbuja 95.1FM on Monday, had reportedly alleged that pardoned terrorists revealed that a serving northern governor was a Boko Haram leader. He claimed to have had a chat with two repentant terrorists who identified the northern governor. Meanwhile Mailafia yesterday honoured the invitation of the Department of State  Services (DSS) over his comment that government was culpable for the ongoing killings in Southern Kaduna. Before his arrival at the premises of the DSS, members of different socio-cultural groups within the Middle Belt besieged the vicinity. Despite the heavy presence of men of DSS, they insisted on remaining within the vicinity until Mailafia, who was with his lawyer, Pius Akubo, came out. There were indications that, amid protests, he was later released yesterday. SIMILARLY, former governor of Kaduna State, Balarabe Musa, has blamed President Muhammadu Buhari for the high level insecurity in the country, particularly in southern Kaduna. Musa said that the decision by the Federal Government to import arms and ammunitions from Russia, China, United States and Jordan could not be taken seriously, because the government had already allowed the terrorists to over-run the country before suddenly realising the need for arms import. He condemned the attacks in Kaduna and other parts of Nigeria, saying that a serious and patriotic government will not condone the present level of insecurity. “President Buhari has failed in all aspects of governance, including the economy and the handling of insecurity in Nigeria. “Insecurity exists in all parts of the country, but it is worse in the North,” he said. The elder statesman remarked that poor governance by the present administration was already affecting the nation’s image negatively. His words: “Imagine the president saying he wants to import arms from Russia, China, U.S. and Jordan; these countries will see us as a nation that is not serious. “Is it the issue of arms only? Is it now that we suddenly realised that we should import arms when the people have been killed and maimed by terrorists and bandits. This is an unserious and irresponsible government.” According to him, the level of insecurity and mismanagement has gone to a higher level. “Anything can happen. This can even lead to civil disobedience and civil war,” Musa added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .