An innocent Nigerian has narrated how some policemen stopped him, his brother and mother on the road and compelled them at gunpoint to transfer N300,000 to them. The victim, simply identified as Adebola, who took to his twitter handle, Adebola@educatedthurg, to complain, urged human rights activists and the government to intervene on his behalf.
 
He explained that they were stopped on August 6, 2020 at an interchange by policemen who wore vests with the inscription ‘Eleweran SCIID’ while taking their mother to a hospital in Abeokuta, Ogun State.  “He even showed the officers his trades and chats. We realised it was getting serious and out of hand, because the policemen looked desperate and willing to do anything to us. We decided to negotiate with them. They said they would take nothing less than N300,000 because of the stress we had put them through.
 
“We agreed to pay the money just to gain our freedom because my mum was scared to death. They refused a transfer because they said it was traceable. They directed us to a POS close to the police station to make the withdrawal. After collecting the money, they asked us to make a one-minute video, stating that we were yahoo boys and to also admit that no money was taken from us. We did it because my mum was worried. They corked their guns like one million times and had over 60 similar videos of different victims on their phones. They were very careful not to mention their names. They go by different code names. I can remember Eru, Tiger and Agbara.” Reacting, the Nigeria Police Force on its twitter handle, @PoliceNG_CRU, disclosed it has launched investigation into the complaint.On August 8, 2020, Adebola returned to twitter to report that their money had been returned, including the POS charges. He added: “I just pray the police could do better in their way of operating.”
 
However, in spite of the police response, Nigerians have lashed out at the police over the incident. A twitter user, Olaide A. Omideyi@OmideyiOlaide, said: “It seems the police now have kidnapping gangs and it is not possible for those up there not to know the atrocities being committed by these thugs. “We see them daily at Old Brewery in Abeokuta, stopping cars driven by young men to extort money. Their vehicles have nothing written on them and no number plates. The so-called officers don’t wear uniforms too, but hold automatic weapons and stand on the road in the name of ‘checking’.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .