Dankwambo Former governor of Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo, has advised his successor, Governor Mohammed Yahaya, to seek tutorials on good governance from him rather than make excuses for inadequacy. Responding to the governor’s verbal missile on Tuesday, Dankwambo told our reporter on telephone yesterday that the onus was on Yahaya, as the sitting governor, to complete any meaningful project in the state, “like I did when I was elected.” Yahaya had said his administration would not spare Dankwambo for wasting the lean resources of the state on uncompleted projects. Describing the threat by the governor to charge his government for misplaced priorities and abandonment of projects as mere rant, Dankwambo added: “He has power to do whatsoever he wants. It is not time for me to comment about government. I was there for eight years and I am tired.” Apparently not comfortable with Yahaya’s assessment of his administration, he said: “How can someone say because a project is uncompleted then it is wasted; certainly, he is not a polished man at all. He should leave it and do the one that makes sense to him. That project was in the budget. Was it not approved by the House of Assembly?” On the location of the edifice described by the governor as unfit, the former governor said the site was approved for motor park because Boko Haram was intensively attacking all the unfenced parks. His words: “You have visited the park and you saw that we fenced it. There was security report that all of them (parks) should be closed. “We felt it was a long-term project because you cannot be using them to carry passengers, if you don’t have central motor park.” According to him, there were about 20 parks in Gombe, but that one is better because the fire station, the secretariat and the clinic are completed, while the hotel is almost ready. “It is only the internal road that they were doing. Only painting and where they will arrange cars’ roofing remained before we left office. “We had disagreement with the main contractor and sub-contractor and there was a delay, but it was not a project that will be completed now; it is a long-term project,” he added. He accused the governor of being the contractor of all the projects he was executing.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .