The General Church Council (GCC) of the Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) Jos rose from its 67th meeting held from July 27 to July 31, 2020, condemning the unabated attacks of armed herdsmen and bandits across the country, especially in the Middle-Belt and Northern states particularly in Southern Kaduna, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Kogi, Katsina, Zamfara, Taraba and Adamawa as they continue to destroy lives and property with impunity. The council condemned in strong terms, the mindless killing of indigenous Christians in Southern Kaduna over the past few weeks, which has assumed a genocidal magnitude, calling on the Federal Government to apprehend the perpetrators and compensate the victims.
   
It considered the recruitment of many repentant deradicalised fighters into the military and other security agencies as a dangerous trend, capable of recycling and legitimising insurgency by infiltration of the security services from where insurgents could continue to wreak havoc on unsuspecting citizens.
 
In a communiqué issued yesterday signed by ECWA President, Rev. Stephen Panya Baba and General Secretary, Rev. Yunusa Sabo Nmadu Jnr, the council noted with grief the attacks on Southern Kaduna Christian communities, which are the strongholds of ECWA. They said over 120 persons including infants and women had been killed in the last two weeks alone with scores injured and thousands displaced from their villages and farmlands by armed Fulani militia without any care from the Kaduna State and Federal Government.
    
The council noted that the manifest nonchalance of both the Federal and Kaduna State governments to the plight of the victims is suggestive of their loss of the innate humane sense of value for life and abdication of primary responsibility of securing the lives and property of their citizens.
   
Furthermore, the communiqué frowns at the recent statement credited to a Presidential spokesman explaining away those genocidal massacres as reprisal killings.
    
It advocated a stronger collaboration between the government, the security agencies and the entire populace to make for a more robust and rapid response for the protection of human lives and property. The council cautioned that government’s failure to protect the citizenry and serve justice will spur them to pursue self – defence which may inevitably lead to anarchy.
  
The council furthermore expressed worries on the failure of the government to secure the release of the only Christian girl, Leah Sharibu, who was abducted by Boko Haram among many female students of Government Secondary School, Chibok. The council is gravely concerned that despite several promises by the government, the freedom of the abducted girls has not been secured.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .