 Seme border closed since August 20,2019.(Inset: Trucks of goods at the border).  								                          PHOTO:AYODELE ADENIRAN  In particular, access to raw materials for manufacturers of cocoa beverages have become more difficult. Prior to the closure of the border, cocoa beverage manufacturers imported cocoa from neighbouring countries like Ghana through trucks via the land borders rather than through the seaports.  President, National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS) and member of the ECOWAS Task Force, Ken Ukaoha, in a chat with The Guardian, said the reason why the borders have remain closed or its re-opening may have been delayed, may not be unconnected with the implementation of the COVID-19 protocols.He, however, warned that the border closure was becoming a bit too late and dicey, as majority of goods have been stranded and abandoned at the border till this time.
  
“71 per cent of the goods belong to Nigerians. At a time when the pandemic is affecting many businesses, this would have served as a form of incentive considering that a lot of investments are stuck at the borders; yet, we seek revenues from loans when revenues can be sourced easily.
   
“Over 53 per cent of the goods are agro-based and have a short life-span. It does not bring any benefit to the country to see them waste. The longer we delay the re-opening of the borders or allow genuine goods to be picked up, the more we unwittingly inform businesses that there are no incentives to doing the right things.
   
“Operators support the actions of the government. The action should have been for a moment and not unnecessarily prolonged as it not a deterrent action but a frustration to business actors”, he added.He noted that the Federal Government’s action has brought bad blood between Nigeria and neighbouring countries, leading to a reciprocal action in such countries against Nigerian traders.
  
“As a member of ECOWAS Task Force, while Nigeria was right in closing the borders to bring sanity, ECOWAS has done a good job in bringing the actors to the table. 15 points were raised, 13 had been complied with pre-COVID. The remaining two were being worked upon. Niger and Benin have shown willingness to comply. The Nigerian government should also do the needful.
  
“The haulage companies are stranded as their trucks remain at the borders with no end in sight; goods cannot be transloaded into another truck. This has consequences for the companies whose businesses rely solely on those trucks. The worst of it is that government would not talk about compensation having kept the goods for such a long period,” he said. The Chairman, MAN Export Promotion Group (MANEG), Ede Dafinone, said due to the current border situation, many companies are in dire problems, saying that significant losses and many businesses are about to collapse.He stressed that there are companies who rely on the West African market for additional sales to make profits, while some manufacture locally in Nigeria for export, but have had their warehouse filled with unsold inventory.
 
Dafinone said: “It is a year on and clearly, all those who are exporting through the land borders have been impacted. Very few companies have found a way to use coastal vehicles, notwithstanding the additional costs that come with the multiple handling in the process.
   
“While there are companies that manufacture palm oil locally as well as other commodities that may have benefitted significantly from the border closure, there is a net loss to the economy in terms of export revenue. The border closure has dragged on for long without any sign of when it will be opened. This puts the country as a risky place for long-term investments. Investors will always be wary of investing in the economy.
   
“From the government side, there may have be an increase in revenue from payable duty but Customs should be trade facilitating agency rather than a revenue-generating agency.” The LCCI had in its reaction, stated that the government ought to be more strategic and tactical in dealing with problems of this nature. LCCI Director-General, Muda Yusuf said: “The border closure is a simplistic solution to a complicated, broader and multidimensional problem. We should develop the culture of tackling the causes of problems, not fighting the symptoms. This is the way to solve a problem sustainably.
 
“One of the critical challenges we face as a nation is that of weak state institutions. This is what has manifested in the escalation of the phenomenon of smuggling. It is regrettable that innocent citizens that are struggling to make a living are now being made to pay the price for lapses of ineffectual institutions of the state.
 
“The truth is that government agencies at our borders have not lived up to their mandates. It is impossible for the scale of smuggling being reported to take place without the connivance of state officials at the borders. The starting point in dealing with this problem is to get the state institutions to do their job. “Border closure does not offer a sustainable solution. It only penalises small players in the informal sector. It disrupts the supply chains and exports transactions of many big firms that do business across the sub-region. The cost of this closure to businesses is evidently phenomenal and would be in billions of naira. It also has implications for the confidence of investors as well.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .