El-Rufai • There Was No Sincere Agreement – SOKAPU
• PFN Urges FG To Prevent Killings Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) has petitioned Governor Nasir El-Rufai over the breach of peace agreement between the Fulanis and Southern Kaduna. But the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has said it was not part of any peace meeting called by the Agwai Atyap, Chief Dominic Yahaya to broker peace between the Fulanis and the Kataf. In the petition to El-Rufai, it alleged that last week’s attack and killing was by tribal fanatics and militia groups of the Atyap (Kataf). The protest letter, by Chairman, MACBAN, Kaduna Chapter, Haruna Usman Tugga, alleged: “We are really surprised that despite efforts by concerned communities in the Chiefdom and agreement by the three parties, Atyap (Kataf), Hausa and Fulani communities on August 22, Atyap people were the first to violate the terms reached at the summit organised by the Paramount Ruler of the Atyap (Kataf) Chiefdom.” Reacting to the accusations, SOKAPU’s Spokesman, Luka Binniyat, said nobody could substantiate the allegation of attack on Fulanis. He added that SOKAPU was not invited to any peace agreement. “It is clear from the onset that anything devoid of justice and sincerity cannot stand the test of time. The government has never shown sincere commitment, not only to Atyap land, but the entire Southern Kaduna,” Binniyat added. Similarly, National Secretary, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) and Overseer of Throneroom (Trust) Ministry Kafanchan, Apostle Dr Emmanuel Nuhu Kure has urged the Federal Government to immediately halt the attacks and killings in Southern Kaduna before it leads to a revolution. The clergy, who was guest speaker at the grand finale of the prayers and indoor protest sessions by Southern Kaduna Indigenes, held at ECWA Goodnews Church, Kaduna, said the bloody violence, if not arrested, may lead to revolution, when people would be forced to come out to defend themselves against armed militia group attacking the natives. Kure lamented that despite the presence of armed soldiers, deployed by the Federal Government, the bloody crisis in the troubled communities remained unabated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .