Enugu State Government yesterday demolished a twin duplex belonging to one Architect, John Emejulu for allegedly blocking a waterway. The houses located at Eziokwe Street, Community Estate, off Nike Lake Resort Road, Trans Ekulu was demolished by officials of the Enugu Capital Territory Development Authority (ECTDA). Chairman of ECTDA, Josef Onoh, who supervised the demolition, said the building was on a waterway. The Notice of Violation served on the victim by the Department of Building Inspection, ECTDA also stated that the building violated building standards. Emejulu however differed from the position of the state government, saying the twin duplex built in 2012 had an approved plan and did not stand on any waterway. He described the demolition of the property as a duly planned reprisal by the state government due to his move to recover his landed property illegally sold by some government officials. Emejulu said that prior to Aug. 12, 2020, he never received any notice of intent to demolish his property on the ground that it was built on waterway, wondering why just his property was singled out for demolition while other adjoining property where not touched. Emejulu said that the demolition was a clear indication that the government was chastising him and had hand in the forceful takeover of his land. It would be recalled that Emejulu had gone to Airport Layout Phase IV and V to enforce a court judgment in respect of a hitherto disputed land measuring 400 plots. In the course of the enforcement, he pulled down some pillars of perimeter fence of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, which was affected by the court judgment.
Emejulu also pulled down perimeter fence of some private buildings illegally erected on the land while the doors and windows of some private houses were destroyed. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sariki, who visited Enugu on Thursday, said that the federal government would retaliate the act, which he described as “willful act”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .