Lyta and South Korean boy band GOT7 Naira Marley’s new signee Lyta has been accused of music video plagiarism by South Korean K-pop fans. K-pop fans took to social media to decry the uncanny similarities between Nigerian singer’s new video for the song “Hold Me Down” And “Just Right” by South Korean K-pop boy band GOT7. A Twitter fan page of GOT7 @GOT7_JYP noted the similarity between both videos. “Please take legal action on this. We do not accept plagiarism”, they tweeted and tagged the boy band official Twitter account. Along with their tweet, the fan page shared a video in which both music videos were placed together. [!!] Lyta’s Hold Me Down MV has plagiarized GOT7’s Just Right MV. @jypnation @GOT7Official
Please take legal action on this.
We do not accept plagiarism. #GOT7 #JustRight #갓세븐 pic.twitter.com/5ljeaqLg7e — GOT7_JYP (@GOT7_JYP) August 15, 2020  Lyta’s “Hold Me Down” music video was released yesterday via Naira Marley’s YouTube account.  In the description of the video which has now garnered over 400,000 views, Naira Marley wrote that, “This video was inspired by Kpop Korean boy band GOT7 and BTS.” Meanwhile, GOT7’s music video for “Right Here” was published on July 12, 2015. The video has been viewed over 335 million times.  Reacting to the accusation, Naira Marley on his Twitter page said: “Lyta they’re dragging ur hair in Asia right now Lyta’s not the video director mf. #ApologiseLyta ” Lyta, whose birth name is Lawal Opeyemi Raimi, is a Nigerian singer and songwriter. He signed a record deal with YBNL Nation in 2018 but left the label in May 2019. He recently signed a record deal with Naira Marley’s Malian Records. GOT7 is a South Korean boy band formed by JYP Entertainment, a South Korean multinational entertainment and record label conglomerate. The group is composed of seven members: JB, Mark, Jackson, Jinyoung, Youngjae, BamBam, and Yugyeom. Got7 debuted in January 2014 with the release of their first EP Got It? The music project peaked at number two on the Gaon Album Chart and number one on Billboard’s World Albums Chart.