CommPass App, a suite of tools that enable seamless administration of residential estates and estate residents with emphasis on health, safety and security has launched. Abraham Ibrahim Jnr. co-founder of CommPass, said that the app ships with features that include contactless access control (with advance guest booking functionality), residents communication, advance safety warning system, artisans and vendor management, car pooling and more. Ibrahim Jnr, who spoke at the demo of the app at #builtconverse – the virtual built-tech event – , said the CommPass app is a cloud based solution that simplifies facility management and it is easy for residents and facility managers to use.” CommPass is coming as the world is going through unprecedented period in mankind’s history. COVID-19 forced the closure of economies as nations struggled to find the right response to the deadly disease. Stakeholders at the demo of the app at #builtconverse which included Deborah Nicol-Omeruah – Deputy CEO, UPDC Plc, Wole Olufore, MD, Alpha Mead Facilities, Kehinde Ogundimu – MD, Nigerian Mortgage Refinancing Company, had high praises for the app. Also speaking at the event, Nnamdi Ehirim one of the Co-founders said “We have created these new tools to mitigate the risks our communities face going forward. And as the situation with COVID-19 continues to develop, now is a good time for estate administrators and facility managers to consider updating their access control protocols to a more modern, future-proof system that could increase the speed and efficiency of community to interactions.” “At CommPass, we have built our features around considerations which we believe are non-negotiable when appraising post-COVID access control protocols. For starters, new protocols should proactively ask residents to identify people authorized into their premises with minimal human contact. It should also allow facility managers and estate administrators’ suspend access to others who are not authorized to enable efficient reporting and contact tracing” Nnamdi concluded.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .