 Ikedi Ohakim  Former Imo State Governor, Dr. Ikedi Ohakim, has pleaded with his supporters and associates to maintain calm in the face of allegations leveled against him by one Ms Chinyere Lilian Amuchienwa, via a newspaper publication. His legal Counsel, Chief Aloy Ejimakor, who disclosed this to his supporters at the weekend, in a statement, said the allegations, contained in ThisDay newspaper publication of August 12, 2020, was based on a number of unproven and libelous allegations against the ex governor. Ejimakor revealed that the said publication, which appeared both in the print and electronic versions of the newspaper, with the headline: “Businesswoman Petitions Police, DSS, Accuses Ohakim of Fraud,” alleged that Amuchinwa purchased a land from Ohakim or that she was defrauded by him to the tune of N500m over purchase of land and that Ohakim purchased any goods or other chattels from Amuchinwa, valued at N110m. Ejimakor who asserted that the publication bears several libelous allegations against Ohakim, said: “It is not true that Ohakim was arrested over Amuchinwa’s petition and then granted an administrative bail. It was Amuchinwa that was arrested, detained and then granted administrative bail and the matter over which she was arrested (assault of Dr Ohakim) is pending commencement of Court arraignment.” In another development, employees of former Vice President Abubakar Atiku’s Adama beverages Limited, Yola, Adamawa State, have described as false and libelous, a recent media report on mass sack of workers and molestation of a female staff. The company’s union of Food, Beverages, and Tobacco Senior Staff Association (FOBTOB), said it was untrue that there is an ongoing massive sack of staff and maltreatment of a female worker and other sundry allegations. A statement co-signed by the chairman of the union, Mr. Palke Bwalbumo and his secretary Mr. Danjuma Audu faulted the report, saying it is libelous and aimed at tarnishing the good image of the company. “Concerning reports in a section of the media alleging that the management of Adama beverages Ltd producers of the popular Faro table water and beverages engaged in unethical conducts inimical to industrial labor relations, we wish to state that the story in its entirety is fabricated lies aimed at tarnishing the image of our company and its management led by Mr. Francis Vazheparambil. “Taking into cognisance that the so called “spokesman” of the company’s union referenced in the story, Abdullahi Maigida Bello, is not an employee of the company, we are compelled as a responsible union to set the records straight. For the avoidance of doubt, there has never been any case of molestation of any female worker or anyone in the entire workforce. “Despite deep economic turmoil caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, there has not been any mass sack in Adama beverages and no staff is owed salaries as all wages are paid promptly. The union rejects the claim that there was a blockage of roads and vehicle movement within the precinct of the factory as reported….” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .