 Buhari  President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to boost internal security by creating more police mobile force in the country. The president made the pledge at the commissioning of the Police Mobile Force Training College on the Ende hills, Nasarawa Eggon Council. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammad Maigari, commended the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, for creating a separate intelligent unit office and more mobile force in the country. In his address, Governor Abdullahi Sule lauded Buhari for approving the Nasarawa site of the training college. Sule, however, expressed worries over the resurgence of a dangerous Islamic sect called Darul-salam Haqika, which is terrorising Toto and Awe councils of the state. On his part, the IGP remarked that the college was a critical national security asset strategic to the police force to strengthen the capacity of special and tactical operations arms of the police. Meanwhile Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State yesterday said that banditry and related criminality were reducing in the North West geo-political zone. El-Rufai said his state and the region should expect bumper harvest from erstwhile abandoned farmlands in the area, “if the tempo is maintained.” He was speaking when he and Niger State Governor Abubakar Bello visited the Nigeria Army Super Camp IV in Faskari Council of Katsina State. The governor, however, attributed the reduction in cases of banditry to concerted efforts by the military through Operation Sahel Sanity to tackle insecurity in the region. He noted the initial fears by governors in the region that insecurity could escalate due to activities of bandits. “Security has improved compared to what it used to be a few months ago, but there is still work to be done,” he added. Worried by insecurity in the country, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has urged the Federal Government to allow responsible citizens to carry AK-47 and other sophisticated weapons to deter criminals from attacking innocent and helpless Nigerians. Ortom, who made the call at the Governor’s House while hosting youths of the state at the International Youths Day celebration, advised that a legal framework should back the policy to prevent illegal possession of arms. These were some of the governor’s submissions yesterday in a paper during the virtual meeting convened by Centre for Values in Leadership (CVL), in collaboration with the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), according his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase. In the paper entitled ‘Insecurity and Governance Challenges in the New Normal’, the governor urged governments at all levels to recognise insecurity as real threat to development and be willing to tackle it. Ortom also recommended adequate funding of security agencies and continuous training of the personnel to get them abreast of global dynamics in the fight against insecurity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .