Lady Gaga Reveals She Is On Anti-psychotic Medication Singer Lady Gaga, real name Stefani Germanotta, revealed she is taking anti-psychotic medication because she can’t always control what her brain does. In a frank and open discussion with Zane Lowe on Apple Music’s Beats 1 radio station, Lady Gaga, 34, said that she has found olanzapine helpful, a drug used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar. She said: I wrote a song on Chromatica called 911, and it’s about an anti-psychotic that I take and it’s because I can’t always control things that my brain does and I have to take medication to stop the process that occurs. I know I have mental issues and I know that they can sometimes render me non-functional as a human. Lady Gaga previously said that she went on medication after being repeatedly raped at the age of 19, leaving her with PTSD. Opening up at Oprah’s 2020 Vision: Your Life In Focus Tour in Florida in January, she said: I had a psychotic break, I’ll explain what happened. Here’s my brain, here’s the center. And then, I was triggered really bad in a court deposition, and this part of the brain where you stay centered and you don’t dissociate, right? It went like this, she said, before slamming her hand down. It slammed down. And my whole body started tingling, I started screaming. Asked by Oprah where she was at, she replied, ‘I was in the hospital.’ It’s very difficult to describe what it feels like other than that at first, you are completely tingling from head to toe, and then you go numb, but what is essentially happening is the brain goes. That’s enough, I don’t want to think about this anymore, I don’t want to feel this anymore,’ boom,’ she said, slamming her hand down again. Gaga said she was evaluated by a psychiatrist, much to her initial annoyance. Gaga had already revealed she suffered a psychotic break as part of a recent interview she did with Oprah for Elle Magazine. The star concluded that she has wanted to do more to help others amid the coronavirus pandemic.