ghosting | Image: kuulpeeps It started all great and sweet then there is a sudden silence. They no longer replies your text, chats or even return your calls and that without an apparent reason. They just disappear from your life like a ghost. Ghosting is a colloquial term used to describe the practice of ceasing all communication and contact with a partner, friend, or similar individual without any apparent warning or justification and subsequently ignoring any attempts to reach out or communicate made by said partner or friend. Ghosting may be especially hurtful for those on the receiving end, causing feelings of rejection. Listed below are some reasons why people ghost their way out a relationship: They are afraid of confrontation:
Someone who no longer wants to continue the relationship and is afraid of drama or conflict that may arise from communicating a break up is likely to avoid the process altogether. Such a person would rather not pursue a closure and just cease communication. They are not into you anymore:
This is a more likely reason for people to ghost in a relationship; they don’t want to continue a relationship with you. Maybe the feeling they first felt with you has waned so they decide it best (for them) to cease communication with you. They met someone else:
People are likely to ghost when they meet someone else, could be a new lover or even an ex. Telling you that they have met someone new might seem like a very uncomfortable conversation for them. They never wanted commitment:
Yea, commitment phobia is a real thing. For some, it’s easy to maintain a relationship and be committed to it. Meanwhile, others aren’t cut out for it. Such people have a problem in staying in a relationship for the long-term. While they still experience love like anyone else, the feelings can be more intense and scary than they are for most people. They are busy:
From personal crisis, to chasing work deadline everyone gets really busy at some point. But are they? If they are posting many times a day on their social media but can’t reply you then you’ve been ghosted. What To Do When Someone Ghosts You Stop poring over it:
You can’t seem to stop your mind from trying to make sense of it. “Why did he stop texting back?” “Is she seeing someone new?” You’re looking for closure and your mind looks for answers like lost piece of a puzzle. But you really shouldn’t do that to yourself. Do not blame yourself:
It is important for you to know that when someone ghosts on you, it is more about them than it is about you. It is not your fault that they are immature and can’t control thier emotions or too weak to tell you their mind. So don’t blame yourself, except you did something really shitty like killed their dog or set their stuff on fire or cheat or them *shrugs* Delete and disconnect:
I know you are tempted to go spy on their social media pages for clues. Or you keep poring over their texts and Whatsapp chats with you. Don’t do that to yourself.
Delete everything related to them and move on. This might seem hard but it’s the truth. What if they reappear?
In some cases, they might reappear and act all sorry with a low of excuses. But be very cautious, except their excuses is very, very reasonable, chances are that they might ghost on you again.