Nigerians React As Oyedepo Rejects The Application Of CAMA In Churches Bishop David Oyedepo on Sunday questioned the rationale behind the inclusion of religious centres and charity organisations into the Company and Allied Matters Acts (CAMA). The law which was recently signed by the Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari states that “the commission may by order, suspend the trustees of an association or a religious body and appoint an interim manager or managers to coordinate its affairs where it reasonably believes that there has been any misconduct or mismanagement, or where the affairs of the association are being run fraudulently or where it is necessary or desirable for the purpose of public interest.” While addressing the members of his congregation, he said the decision is borne out of jealousy of the church’s growth. In his words: The church works on the pattern delivered by God not the pattern of man. The government has no power to appoint people over churches. This is a secular nation. The church is the greatest asset of God in this country. Please be warned. Judgment is coming. The Lord says I have been still but now I will arise. Anybody that is in this deal is taking poison. This will never work. I am waiting for a day when anybody will appoint a trustee over this church… You can’t gag anybody. We own this country together. It is only in Africa that people who are over 80 years still run around to become president. I know that it is the prosperity of the church that is making them jealous. But I am going to live to see an army of many winners soar greater. In this church shall emerge one of the largest concentrations of giants on earth. People on social media however have different reactions to Oyedepo’s view. While some agree with him, some believe he is wrong. Below are the reactions: I hope this is not true.
If it is, Oyedepo will have to manufacture his own country and live by his own laws. As long as he lives and operates within the entity called Nigeria, he will live by Nigerian rules and laws. He will do as he’s told by the law Enough of lawlessness pic.twitter.com/A0lMPe7Cku — Lauretta Onochie (@Laurestar) August 17, 2020  If people really understand what CAMA are about to do through this law, they would know why Oyedepo is against it. — McChristian™…. (@The_friedfish) August 17, 2020  Tell me anything else Oyedepo is not against. https://t.co/L87ul9Am7w — Adébáyọ̀ (@Iam_wahsea) August 17, 2020  LMAO. Oyedepo no wan pay Tax. Baba pay up! — Fort (@fortlagos) August 17, 2020  Paragraph 3 line 2,3,4,5 I don’t understand. You think oyedepo is mad for rejecting?? pic.twitter.com/UbJzqrmwDF — THE MEEK (@BigDadiMeek) August 17, 2020  It’s the chief of many stupidity for the state to approve of regulating the church in any and every way. Let’s not think this is some overreaction from Bishop Oyedepo. A state that can replace the board of trustees on any church board can block the truth, impede religious freedom — Yomi™ (@YomiOyesola) August 17, 2020  Yes! Government are going too far with this! I’m totally against the law. How can government take over the
management of my Church or personal investment? It’s not right at all! — Larry Chime (@larryifedi) August 17, 2020  If dem meet for Ojuolomo oto, Oyedepo fit land Buhari heavy punch tbh.
 pic.twitter.com/IWgVq9f0gR — Ojuade Bola (@Bolajuade) August 17, 2020  Pastor David Oyedepo, if u say govt. has no rights to appoint trustees to yr church, what happened to pastor Oyakhilome church in the UK that was taken over by the UK Charity Commission? — TEO INFLUENCE (@TeoInfluence) August 17, 2020  No fan of Oyedepo but that section is very problematic. ‘Public interest’ can be interpreted to mean anything — tyro (@DoubleEph) August 17, 2020 