A Magistrate Court sitting in Kaduna State on Thursday discharged two of the three suspected killers of the Nigeria’s female Flying Officer Pilot, Tolulope Arotile’s death. The prime suspect, Nehemiah Adejor, is to be charged for culpable homicide. Other charges against Adejor is criminal conspiracy and he will be arraigned at the state High Court on 3 September, 2020. The police disclosed that  there is no premeditation in the death of the late flying, Arotile who was killed by car accident. Meanwhile, the prosecution counsel, DSP Martins D. Leo, prayed the Court to discharge the second and third suspects as their investigation did not find them guilty of the allegations levelled against them. While ruling on the motion, Magistrate Benjamin Hassan, discharged both suspects, Folorunsho Igbekele Faith and Gbayegun Deji respectively, following the police investigation and the legal advice from the state’s Director of Public Prosecution Bayero Dari that they have no case to answer. According to the legal advice from the Director of Public Prosecution, read in the court, there is no premeditation in the death of the Flying Officer Arotile, but there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the first suspect, Nehemiah Adejor for culpable homicide not punishable with death. “Police investigation reveals that all the suspects attended the same secondary school with the deceased and upon sighting her the 1st suspect recklessly reversed the car and eventually ran over the deceased which led to her untimely death. “The 1st suspect admitted in his cautionary statement that on the 14th day of July, 2020 he was together with the two other suspects in a car KIA Sorento he was driving, when he saw the deceased walking along the roadside of the Air force Base. “He informed the other suspects who screamed enthusiastically after which he stopped and started reversing the car in order to meet the deceased and exchange pleasantries. In the process of which he mistakenly ran over her and she later died. He denied having any premeditated plan to kill her. “The 2nd suspect also stated in his cautionary statement that on the fateful day he along with the 1st and 3rd suspect went on hangout and on their way back the 1st suspect cited the deceased whom they later saw and became extensively happy. That the 1st suspect stopped the car and began to reverse same in order to meet up with the deceased and exchange greetings since they have not met a long time. “That when he noticed the 1st suspect was driving speedily off the road he cautioned him, but unfortunately he got confused and ran over the deceased. He out rightly denied any arrangement to cause the death of the deceased. “He added that being a trained nurse he assisted in resuscitating the deceased at the hospital but all attempt proved abortive until she was pronounced clinically dead. “In his cautionary statement, the 3rd suspect corroborated the statement of the 2nd suspect in all material particulars as to the events of the 14th day of July, 2020, as it relates to the death of Flying Officer Tolutope Arotile at NAF Base Kaduna. “It is clear also from the investigation done; the 2nd and 3rd suspects were passengers and friends of the 1st suspect who was driving the vehicle. “From the foregoing there is sufficient evidence to prosecute the 1st suspect for the offence of Culpable Homicide not punishable with death contrary to Section 191 of the Kaduna State Penal Code Law, 2017 as there is no premeditation in the death of the deceased. “There is however insufficient evidence against the 2nd and 3rd suspects as the entire investigation did not disclose any offence against them other than being passengers in the vehicle of the 1st suspect. “To prosecute them therefore will be embarking on an evidential conjuncture totally unknown to our Criminal Justice System, they can be discharged accordingly pursuant to Section 125 (6) (e) of the Kaduna State Administration of Criminal Justice Law, 2017 and thereafter be used as prosecution witnesses in the trial of the 1st suspect,” the legal advice stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .