 (Middle) Obaseki at the carnival-like march termed the Umbrella March. Photo; TWITTER/GOVERNOROBASEKI  Fresh Anxieties
HOWEVER, despite President Buhari’s assurance of a level play field, new threats to the faithful observance of the INEC timetable emerged when the Court of Appeal in Abuja ruled that the electoral umpire displayed rascality in deregistering some political parties in the country.  Tinubu, Akeredolu Plot APC Victory
IN what many observers of the build up to the forthcoming Ondo gubernatorial election saw as an unexpected reality, one of the national leaders of the APC, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu and the incumbent, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, settled their differences in a bid to ensure victory.
 
Analysts had believed that the political ‘cold war’ between Governor Akeredolu and his estranged former godfather, Tinubu, would pose an insurmountable obstacle for his re-election.
 
Some commentators had maintained that the Ondo and Edo states governorship polls would determine whether APC would survive beyond the two-term administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, especially the uncertainty that dogs the party’s future.
 
However, going by the list of the APC Campaign Council, which contained 104 names and headed by Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwoolu, it is obvious that Tinubu is conscientiously involved in the Ondo project.
 
Most of the stalwarts on the list are pro-Tinubu bloc of the party, thereby explaining why many APC bigwigs in Ondo State, who are die-hard fans of the politician are making political U-turn to support the governor.  New Thinking
TO the surprise of his opponents, a new thinking had come into the relationship between the former Lagos State governor and Akeredolu. Evidence of that came to light when the governor’s suspension by the APC national leadership was lifted by the immediate past National Working Committee (NWC) of the party led by Adams Oshiomhole.
 
Shortly after Oshiomhole was restored as the national chairman, about five months ago, a delegation of APC governors went to Bourdillon to pacify Tinubu over the reelection bids of Akeredolu and his Edo State counterpart, Godwin Obaseki.
   
Though Obaseki, who later decamped to the major opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), could not overcome the hurdles with Oshiomhole, it was learnt that the latter had approved direct primary option for Ondo State before he was finally sacked.
 
It was this sudden change in leadership that eventually nailed the coffin of the 11 governorship aspirants, who had vowed to send Akeredolu back to Ibadan, believing the party would consider their number and demand for direct primary option.  But, Akeredolu, it was learnt, after assuring all leaders that he had settled for Akintelure, who had all the political leverage to deliver the South District for APC, pulled a smart one and announced Lucky Aiyedatiwa instead.
   
Observers said the governor’s sudden change was to shut Tinubu out of the scheme of things, since both the go
vernor and Akintelure were products of Bourdillon’s benevolence in 2012.
 
Yet in a bid to convince all and sundry that he was not working against the Bourdillon bloc, Governor Akeredolu took his running mate, Aiyedatiwa, to Tinubu in Lagos State, ostensibly to seek the blessings of the godfather and explain the implications of his choice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .