Group seeks media blacklisting of ex-minister Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in Cross River State have condemned a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode over his recent attack on a journalist in Cross River State, Eyo Charles. Charles, who reports for Daily Trust newspaper, had, at a media briefing, demanded to know the source of funding for the ex-ministers nationwide tour of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) states and on what capacity. But Fani-Kayode got angry and responded with unprintable words, thus bringing the briefing, which was moderated by Governor Ben Ayade Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Christian Ita, to an abrupt end. Speaking on behalf of the CSOs, Executive Director of Rainforest Resource and Development Centre (RRDC), Odey Oyama said, “I was speechless when I watched the video. As a lawyer, former minister, and a presidential spokesman, he should show decorum in responding to civilised conduct and diplomacy at all times. “Does Fani-Kayode’s outlandish response to the question (no matter how silly he considers it) demonstrate the character and credentials of a lawyer, former minister, and diplomat?” Oyama stated that evil thrived in society when good men keep silent and do nothing, adding that if the world must be cleansed of evildoers and the bizarre situations, good men must rise to the occasion and respond to the clarion call. MEANWHILE, the 1990 graduates of the University of Uyo Communication Arts Class described Fani-Kayode’s reaction as mindless and irresponsible. The group said if he failed to apologise for his action, Nigerian journalists should declare him an enemy of the media and blacklist him until he tendered an unreserved apology to media practitioners. In a statement issued by Stanley Uzoechina on behalf of the class in Calabar, they said, “Where he stopped shy of physically shredding a journalist for asking a legitimate question, showed that the former minister was a horrible mistake for all the previous leadership positions he had held in the country. “By the same mindless action, Fani-Kayode equally demonstrated that he would be a calamity if he were to be considered for another leadership position in the future.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .