• Immortalise Him Now, Oodua Action Movement Urges FG 
The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has described the late elder statesman, Pa Ayorinde Fasanmi, as an eminent politician, who devoted himself toward progressive development and democratic advancement of the nation. In a statement made available to The Guardian, the APC leader said Fasanmi’s long sojourn on earth was for the good of all. “A colourful personality, Papa was principled, courageous and honest. He was a loyal and dependable ally of the indomitable Chief Obafemi Awolowo. For all his life, Pa Fasanmi practised and advanced the virtues he learned at the feet of his leader. He never betrayed those values,” he said. Tinubu, who described Fasanmi as a mentor and role model, said as Afenifere leader, he was a true believer in the importance of fiscal federalism as essential for the growth of Nigeria. Meanwhile, a Yoruba socio-political group, Oodua Action Movement (OAM) has called on the Federal Government to immortalise Fasanmi, who died at the age of 94. The group joined other well-meaning Nigerians to mourn the death of the elder statesman, whom it said, worked laboriously for the development of the country.
The coordinator of the group, Demola Edward, in a statement, said Fasanmi’s death has robbed the Yoruba nation of a prominent leader. According to Edward, the Afenifere leader will be sorely missed at this crucial time in the agitation for Yorubaland autonomy. Edward described Fasanmi as a visionary leader who was deeply committed and worked assiduously to improve the conditions of his people and the development of the country. The OAM Coordinator, who extoled the humanity, integrity and purposefulness of Pa Fasanmi, said the late elder statesman prioritised the needs of the people above all else. Consequently, Edward appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to immortalise the nonagenarian, saying all his efforts and travails for the nation qualify him for national honour.  Senator Fasanmi, a nonagenarian and chieftain of Egbe Ilosiwaju Yoruba, died after brief illness in Osogbo, Osun State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .