Azealia Banks | Image: Twitter/BeanNickyBarnes American rapper Azealia Banks raised concerns from her fans on Saturday night after she shared a series of text posts to Instagram that suggested she planned to end her own life. Banks, 29, followed up the text posts with audio messages on Sunday in which she expressed plans to ‘euthanize’ herself after she finished the music she is currently working on. “Yea, I think I’m done here. This pandemic, extreme lack of social interaction, no intimacy, combined with constant public ridicule is making life harder that its worth. I think I will end my tenure here on earth soon,” she wrote. In the next post, Banks assured her fans that she wasn’t looking for attention or sympathy. “I’m not begging for attention or asking for sympathy/empathy……. I’m just ready to go. Peacefully of course. I will document my last times and release a film for you all to finally understand me, From my perspective. “My soul is tired. I’m ready to go.” In spite of her plans to end her life, she did promise her fans that she will complete the music she is currently working on. “I will try my best to finish the projects I promised I would beforehand. With whatever strength Is left,” she wrote. She concluded the messages with a request for fans to leave her alone. “Please don’t bombard me with messages. I am not in pain. I am at peace,” she wrote, concluding with a candle emoji. Then on Sunday morning, she shared an even more chilling audio message. “I just had a friend come and do a welfare check on me. I’m fine, I promise you, I’m fine. I’m not scared,” she said in posts over a black background. “But my decision is made. The decision is made, you know. I’m just gonna try to push through these next couple months. Business and pleasure, you know,” she continued, before listing the albums she wanted to finish. She detailed her plan in the next post: “I’m gonna, like, start looking for voluntary euthanasia options. Because, you know, I don’t have any more defence. I don’t. Being ridiculed, having my ideas stolen, all that other s***. I’d actually rather die a hero than some b**** that people continue to make fun of,” she admitted. “And this is not about all the people, it’s just about my body and what I need to do to rest my soul, so I can come back stronger. Please, please, please don’t get in my DMs, don’t send me messages,” she begged her fans, and possibly her friends and family. “I know, that’s fine, you love me, that’s great, but don’t send me messages about how you care. When I’m in trouble, when I’ve been, like, screaming and shouting that I’ve been in trouble for a long time, and asking for help for a long time. Don’t just respond to me when I’m ready to go. “I’m really just ready to go. I’m ready to go,” she mumbled. “But I do feel an obligation to myself, the world, and my fans to finish that last trilogy of projects before I go. They may sound like f***ed up. They may not be mixed and mastered properly. “But I’ve gotta get out of here. I’ve gotta get out of here.”