 PHOTO: PMNEWS  Atiku faced problems at that time because many in the north misperceived him as not being fully representative of their culture and aspirations. They made issue, for instance of the fact that his loyalty to President Obasanjo went beyond the call of duty. He was criticized for wearing the Yoruba cap, called at that time “power shift,” and the fact that he didn’t regularly speak Hausa, the language of the majority in the region on popular radio channels such the BBC Hausa, issues which many might dismiss as being nothing but political attacks.
 
But the biggest of the problems of the Vice President was the remark he made, that states in the North that had adopted the Shari’ah legal system for criminal matters should “revert to status quo.” This put him on the firing line of the Islamic religious leaders and the Imams preached against him in all their mosques.
 
As rightly reported by The Cable, Malam Wada brought the Vice President, a very powerful number-two leader at that time, sat him down with us where he made the confession that he had a problem and asked that we help him. That truly had an effect on me.
 
What I then did was to commission a scientific study, and I found an excellent friend and scholar, Dr. Nu’uman Habib from the Bayero University, Kano to lead it.
 
First, we needed to know the Vice President’s communications problems and then find commutations solutions to them. We literally held a mirror to the face of the Vice President in which he saw himself and it was clear that he didn’t like what he saw. In my presentation of that report to him, we informed him that in addition to the changes he needed to make for his own part, he also needed a “Spin Doctor.”
 
When they took office for the Second Term in office, I was named in television news as a Special Assistant (Media) in the office of the Vice President. Six months thereafter, the TV news announced that the President had accepted my resignation.  While we waited for the Candidate to decide on what to do with us, both Wada and I made separate decisions to go for Umrah in Saudi Arabia, so as to thank the Almighty for seeing us through the primaries.
 
Just as I was ready to go, Dele Alake, a friend and fellow editor called me to say that he had a meeting with the Candidate and a good chance was that he was going to lead the media campaign. Dele said he wanted me to work with him and suggested that I delay my departure in case something would come up.
 
A week and two came with nothing heard from upstairs so I told Dele I was proceeding with my journey.
 
Two things of interest happened in the course of the trip. At the King Abdulaziz International Airport, Jeddah I saw a group of ladies at the lounge, including an ex-wife of the former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar.
 
She said let me introduce you to someone you need to know, meet Hajiya Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, the wife of the Presidential Candidate. The would-be First Lady received me warmly and said words to this effect, “are you the Garba Shehu whose name has been written as the Director of Media Campaign, then removed, back again and then removed, three times?”  In the end, with the support of especially Malam Wada, the running mate, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, Senator Mamora as Deputy Director General, Boss Mustapha in Operations and Hadiza Bala Usman as campaign Secretary, enjoying the support of millions of volunteers, we ran a damn good campaign which resisted all attempts to drag us into the gutter by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and we won. The late Wada Maida was equally supportive of me on matters outside the realm of the media profession. Because he was never selfish or greedy, he invited me and others that I know to participate in the lucrative consultancies he ran for his never-ending list of clients. No doubt, this helped me and those others to build economic security for ourselves and as a consequence, you did not enter government as a political appointee a hungry man or on an empty stomach. In the eighties when the late Malam Wada and Kabiru Yusuf with some of their friends came up with the idea of starting their newspaper, the now Daily Trust, they made an offer for me to join which I declined on the fear that I did not want to empty the little savings that was on my bank account. It is one of those decisions one regrets taking in one’s entire lifetime, especially when you see the success of that venture, with the Trust today as one of the leading newspapers in Africa, printing simultaneously in four or five Nigerian cities and a multi-storey headquarters building serving as operational base.
 
When four of them, as a core team set out to found the new newspaper called the Peoples Daily, the late Chairman of the paper called to offer me the same percentage of shares as allotted to himself, the late Rufa’i Ibrahim, the late Hajiya Halita Aliyu and Bilya Bala. The fact that the paper was launched in the “mushroom season,” that is the season of the 2015 elections and is still up and about is owed largely to the late Malam Wada. We came together to found a newspaper, then we ran back to our jobs and businesses and left him all by himself and the support of Bilya Bala to carry the burden of the expectations of shareholders and its survival, which must have added further weight to his already overburdened shoulders.
 
But what even mattered most was that he bore the responsibility without complaints of whatever nature. The Peoples Daily is blessed with a crop of dynamic and tireless managers and editors who it is hoped, will not let the paper follow our late Chairman to the grave.  On Malam Wada’s life, many great things can be said and none can be greater or lesser than the other. The media and the nation will always remember his efforts and outstanding contributions to the lives of individuals and communities. May Allah forgive his sins and grant him Aljannah.
 
Shehu is senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .