Residents of Ayewa community in Okelewa Quarters in Iyin Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area of Ekiti State, have urged telecoms firm, MTN, to improve the quality of service in the area.
  
The residents, who decried the unavailability and poor MTN network service in their area, stated that the situation has affected businesses and infringed on the residents’ effective communication.
 
This was contained in a letter addressed to the Regional Manager, MTN Switch office, Ibadan, titled, “Absence of MTN Network Service At Ayewa Community, Iyin-Ekiti: Request for Urgent Action/Need to install MTN Mast to Boost Network,” signed by the Chairman of the community, Adeleye Adebowale, and Secretary, Awe Olu James. The letter reads in part: “We wish to call your urgent attention to intervene by taking prompt and necessary steps towards ensuring a brand new MTN mast is installed in our community, which would help to enhance effective communication by the residents.
 
“Before the decision of the Ayewa community to write this letter to your Regional Office at Ibadan, we have been deeply affected by the unavailability of the MTN Network Service to either call out or receive calls, talk less of using our android phones to browse within the location of our community.
  
“With the above development, sir, we can authoritatively tell you that over five thousand residents in the area are on the verge of doing away with their MTN lines because of the absence of the network in the area.”
  
The letter also noted that some tenants in the community were contemplating and considering changing their location because of the MTN network problems they continually suffer.  The community further stated that the situation is seriously affecting business and humanitarian activities in the area because emergency calls affecting health and businesses cannot be made.
 
“For instance, in case there is an emergency situation being experienced, probably very late in the night or in the wee hours of the day, reaching out to any medical team or security agents or agencies and personnel might be very difficult, thereby endangering the lives of the people in the area,” the statement reads.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .