Minister pledges to partner state govt on virtual learning
Anambra State chapter of the Host Communities of Nigeria Producing Oil & Gas (HOSTCOM) has charged the Federal Government to declare the state an oil producing state to attract more development and revenue. Its Chairman, Chief Victor Emeka, made the call in Awka at the inauguration of the state executive by the National Chairman of HOSTCOM, Chief Benjamin Style Tamaranebi, pledging to partner the state and Federal Government to ensure that industrial harmony prevailed in the host communities. He argued that with the production of 10,000 barrels of crude oil per day in the state, Anambra qualified to be classified as an oil producing state and benefit from the 13 per cent derivation. Tamaranebi, expressed concern over the delay in confirming Anambra an oil producing state despite the production of 10,000 barrels of oil per day since 2012. He said former President Goodluck Jonathan during his visit to the state in 2012 declared that Anambra had a proven production of 10,000 b/d from AN 1,4 & 5 in OPL 915 operated by Sterling Global and OPL 916 operated by Orient Petroleum at ALO 1 location. Meanwhile, Minister of State for Education, Emeka Nwajiuha, has pledged Federal Government’s readiness to partner with Anambra State in its efforts towards effective teaching and learning in the post COVID-19 era. Nwajiuba, who stated this in his message to a virtual conference organised by the state Ministry of Basic Education and Integrated Development Konsult (IDK) Learning Centre in Awka, said the conference was unique, timely and necessary. The virtual conference with the theme “Facing The New Normal: Post COVID-19 Education In Anambra” was organised to sensitise stakeholders on the need to adjust teaching and learning methods. On his part, Governor Willie Obiano, explained that his administration would ensure that education does not suffer setback in the state as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Obiano pledged support for all efforts at ensuring that no child was left behind in the state, noting that teaching-on-air programme that had run for over three months on the Anambra Broadcasting Service (ABS) radio had kept the students updated academically. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .