Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith – Image – Chris Pizzello-Invision-AP Will Smith and Jada Pinkett Smith‘s production company Westbrook Inc. has halted production on one of their projects after 10 staffers tested positive for coronavirus. Variety reports that Westbrook Inc. is the ‘first significant transmission reported at a production company’. In a statement made available to Variety, Westbrook inc. said: “We received 10 positive tests and the crew members quarantined and remain in quarantine. All 10 people were retested and have received negative results. We will continue to follow all official guidelines and safety protocols.” The company helps Will and Jada create content like her hit Facebook Watch series Red Table Talk, his Snapchat show Will From Home, in addition to other television and film projects. The company revealed that they had stopped production on the show that involved the affected workers but it did not reveal which particular show they were referring to. However, production and filming have continued on other shows that involve members of staff who are not affected. They said they are also working with a Department of Public Health investigation. The accuracy of the coronavirus tests has raised questions after the 10 Westbrook Inc. employees tested negative soon after they had tested positive. None of them showed symptoms. A source close to the situation revealed that Westbrook stopped using Rapid Reliable Testing, the firm that conducted both the original the follow-up tests. Smith and Pinkett Smith founded Westbrook Inc. in 2019 along with Miguel Melendez, Kosaku Yada and Tera Hanks. The company is the parent of Westbrook Studios, Will Smith’s film and TV production company, which is currently developing “King Richard,” in which Smith will portray Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena Williams. The company also includes Red Table Talk Productions, which produces Jada Pinkett Smith’s show, as well as Westbrook Media. Westbrook Studios is also working on the reboot of “The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.”