 Ibrahim Gusau  The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) has described as ‘big sin’ the decision of Engr. Ibrahim Gusau to drag the Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, to court against the counsel of the Ministry and the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), just as it warned its state chairmen and other stakeholders to stay away from ‘illegal body.’ AFN Secretary General, Prince Adisa Beyioku, said in a statement made available to The Guardian yesterday that when Gusau was requested by the board of the AFN to account for his stewardship as the president of the federation, he circumvented due process, ignored internal mechanism and did not go to court of Arbitration on Sports, which he was once a beneficiary. “The Ministry has already appealed the judgment of the Court of Appeal, Abuja, where parties are waiting for judgment,” the AFN scribe stated yesterday. Among other issues, Beyioku alleged that Gusau presented 2017 AFN Constitution to ‘our local Court’ as certified by the Court, and presented a different Constitution to World Athletics in order to mislead and cause disunity among the stakeholders. He further stated that Gusau violated the AFN Constitution by diverting monies belonging to AFN on ‘PUMA Contract,’ adding: “The money was later traced to Dynamic Sporting Solutions Nigeria Limited owned by Sunday Adeleye (former Technical Director of AFN). “The Constitution also affirmed the AFN Secretary General as the custodian of all AFN records, properties and documents. There is no copy of the agreement with PUMA in the files at the AFN secretariat and the AFN Secretary General is unaware of any such contract. This is a clear violation of AFN Constitution Article 8.7.2 sub 4.4.4, which states that the Secretary General shall be privy to all decisions of the Federation. “The purpose of this letter is to inform you of the Board’s decision that all States Athletics Associations are to dissociate themselves from one Mr. Pepple, S. Y. who parades himself as Director General of AFN, and any other unauthorized persons attempting to make contact with State Associations. You are advised to ignore any directive or correspondence with them as they are not the recognized officials of the AFN,” Beyioku stated.
Efforts to speak with Ibrahim Gusau yesterday were unsuccessful.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .