 Samuel Ortom. Photo: IREPORTERS  During the International Youth Day celebration in Makurdi yesterday, Ortom said the rule of law in the country was selective, as petty thieves were being jailed while those who stole billions of naira go scot-free. His words: “The rule of law is selective. There are sacred cows that cannot be touched. People steal billions and they are allowed to go scot-free while those who steal chickens are jailed.” The governor described as ‘negative’ the orientation being handed down to youths in the country, but advised them to strive to be good citizens. Counselling the youths against using derogatory remarks on leaders, the governor said such was not the purpose for which the social media platforms were created. Ortom further expressed disgust at the abuse of financial facilities made available to some youths in the state, noting that such opportunities could have launched them into entrepreneurship. Meanwhile Ortom  who had earlier, played host to the Federal Commissioner representing Benue State at the Federal Character Commission, Mr. Silas Macikpah, lamented the marginalisation of Benue State in appointments and distribution of projects by the Federal Government of Nigeria. The governor, however, congratulated the new federal commissioner whom he described as an achiever, and expressed the hope that as an experienced politician, the new commissioner would correct the anomaly. He Benue as one of the federating units of Nigeria would continue to synergise with the Federal Government with a view to getting its fair share of appointments and distribution of other resources. He pledged the support of his administration to enable Micikpa succeed in his new endeavour. Earlier, the Federal Character Commissioner, said their mandate includes ensuring fair and equitable distribution of positions in public service, distribution of socio-economic amenities and infrastructural facilities among the federating units. He stated that guidelines and formulae for correcting marginalization had been drawn and were awaiting parliamentary approval and presidential assent, stressing that the cries for marginalization had been tackled to an appreciable level. Mr Macikpa commended Governor Ortom for the maintenance of peace and security in the state as well as provision of infrastructure and good governance for Benue people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .