Megan Thee Stallion Accuses Tory Lanez Of Shooting Her In The Foot Megan Thee Stallion claimed Canadian rapper Tory Lanez shot her in the foot in a fiery accusation on Instagram Live Thursday night. Megan, 25, told Lanez to stop ‘lying’ about the July incident and claimed she didn’t tell police who arrived at the scene the truth because they were being ‘aggressive’ and she didn’t want the police to shoot her. The rap star said she thought police would kill them if they learned there was a gun in the car and claims she made an attempt to ‘spare’ Lanez, 28, by holding back the truth. Hot Girl Meg said she was now ‘tired’ of the rumors being spread by Lanez’ team, while she told her followers to stop acting like black women is the problem. I’m not gonna let you all keep playing in my face and I’m not going to let this n**** keep playing in my face either. Since you’re all so worried about it, yes, this n**** Tory shot me. You shot me and you got your publicist and your people going to these blogs lying and s**t. Stop lying. Why lie. She also hit out at claims that it happened at Kylie Jenner’s house, where the pair had been partying earlier that evening, saying that they were five minutes from where she was staying when she decided she had enough of an argument and tried to leave the vehicle. I get out of the car. I’m done, I don’t want to argue no more. I get out, I’m walking away and this n**** from out the backseat of the car starts shooting me. You shot me. I didn’t get cut by no glass but I’ll tell you why they’re saying that. The WAP rapper then explained why she hadn’t told the police that Lanez shot her even when she was taken to the hospital, saying it was because she ‘didn’t want to die’. The police are really aggressive. You think I’m about to tell the police that we, us black people, that we’ve got a gun in the car. You want me to tell them we’ve got a gun in the car so they can shoot all of us up. I’m scared. Why would I tell them there’s a gun in the car and I got shot so you can get shot, he can get shot, she can get shot. I didn’t immediately tell the police what happened right then because I didn’t want to die. I didn’t want the police to shoot me because there’s a gun in the car. Megan has been extremely vocal when speaking out against those who have promoted false rumors about what happened when she was shot after leaving the Hollywood Hills party.