 People attend a ceremony hosted by Imam Mahmoud Dicko and his organization, CMAS (Coordination of movements and associations sympathetic to Imam Mahmoud Dicko), in Bamako on August 28, 2020, in honor of the Malians killed by security forces on July 10-12 during ongoing protests against Ibrahim Boubacar Keita, who was ousted by the Malian military on August 18th. – Mali’s influential imam Mahmoud Dicko, a key player in the mass opposition protests that led to Keita’s ouster, said on August 28 that the new military rulers did not have “carte blanche”. “We will not give a blank cheque to anyone to run this country, that’s over,” he said. “We led the fight,” he said. “People have died and the soldiers who have completed (this fight) must keep their word.” (Photo by ANNIE RISEMBERG / AFP)  Military rulers received representatives of the June 5 Movement at the Kati barracks near Bamako late Saturday, after announcing they would postpone a meeting with civic groups, political organisations and former rebels on the transfer of power due to “organisational reasons”. The protest movement has demanded that the military junta give it a role in the transition, in keeping with its role in spearheading Keita’s ouster. It has proposed “a transition of 18 to 24 months” with civilians heading a transitional presidency, government and assembly, one of the movement’s leaders, Choguel Maiga, told AFP. It also called for “a committee to monitor and supervise the transition which will be composed of a majority of members of the junta and the (June 5 Movement),” he said. The junta did not comment on the meeting. The August 18 coup has prompted the West African country’s neighbours and ally France to call for a swift transfer of power, amid heightened worries over instability in a country already struggling with an Islamist insurgency, ethnic violence and economic malaise. French Defence Minister Florence Parly told media Sunday that any delay in restoring civilian rule would benefit terrorists. Mali’s influential imam Mahmoud Dicko, a key player in the mass opposition protests that led to Keita’s ouster, warned Friday that the military rulers did not have “carte blanche”. Dicko’s spokesman Issa Kaou Djim later expanded on this, saying the imam “said the people have started to doubt” the junta. Within hours of taking control, the junta pledged to enact a political transition and stage elections within a “reasonable time”. Chief envoy of the regional bloc ECOWAS, former Nigerian president Goodluck Jonathan, said last week that the coup leaders wanted a three-year transition period. This was rejected by the 15-nation Economic Community of West African States, which has demanded an immediate civilian transition and elections within 12 months.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .