 Audu Ogbeh  Is the ACF disturbed over the killings in the country, particularly in the North? 
Of course, ACF is disturbed over the incessant killings in the North. As the chairman of the forum, am equally disturbed too over the mindless killings. It is totally baffling when criminals enter a village to kill women and children, sometimes, old people. Even more worrisome, is that they carry some into captivity. What is the rationale behind this barbaric killing of women, children, widows, and old men? What is really going on? We in ACF are particularly distressed by these happenings, because it’s a gateway to destruction. Killings and destruction don’t build any society.
   
That is the main reason we had to wait for the easing of Convid-19 to meet today (last Thursday) and begin to ask ourselves what to do. This senseless situation, particularly here in Kaduna and in many states where the crises is going on is not in the best interest of the region. It is a disaster.  We have lost our place as the world’s second largest producer of groundnuts, after the United States and Argentina. We are still at number two in sorghum production in the world. We are doing well in some food crops, but the earnings from these agricultural products are no longer sufficient to carry out many things, particularly in education.  People have lost hope of peace returning to the Northeast geo-political zone. What is your take?
You know Boko Haram began 2010 when (late President Umaru) Yar’Adua was the Head of State. It was at Abuja airport on his way to Brazil when the news of Boko Haram was broken to him. Immediately he gave instructions to the Army to flush the insurgents.  What does a governor need a gang for? Once these thugs are used for a purpose they are dumped. When you dump them, they take up arms. Having said that, it may become necessary – am not a military man, to seek partnership with one or two foreign powers to end the insurgency.
   
When the governor of Borno said there was sabotage, the matter was dismissed. I will advice the military to investigate the matter thoroughly before writing it off. They might find something new. They may find the truth, because Zulum was not just talking for the fun of it.  Why is it when sometimes they are moving to a target, they are usually ambushed. It means someone is leaking information to the insurgents.  Some people are really worried about what the Forum stands for. Is ACF really a religious or tribal organization?	 
Some people said ACF is a religious or ethnic group. But we say, no. The North has over 300 ethnic groups and it is called Arewa. Arewa means North in Hausa. So, there is no reason any one born in any of the Northern states to claim he is not a Northerner. What is happening is affecting all of us. It has nothing to do with religion or tribe.  Kindly share the main focus of ACF under your leadership?
Our main focus now is education, industrial growth, value-addition to agriculture and promotion of peace. You ask, is the peace we are aspiring in the North possible?
   
It has to be. We don’t just have a choice, we just have to make peace or we lose the North.  I’m too old to go on exile. There are so many of us in the region. How will the millions of people living in the North survive as refugees in foreign countries like Niger Republic, Chad, Cameroon, Benin Republic and so on. So we have to make peace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .