 Hembadoon  The singer, in what may be considered a follow up to her recently released jazz inspired Afro-pop single titled Lady, has introduced her fans and music buffs to her lover in a new single Hey Lover, an upbeat electronic dance music, with carefully crafted lyrics that can match the greatest love songs. According to her, Hey Lover is a love song with a twist that  embodies that feel-good type of romance that is fun, vibrant, expressive, and carefree. The lyrics feature a unique infusion of Tiv language – Hembadoon’s indigenous dialect – and adds an exotic flavour to the composition. The characteristic opening line leads into robust verses and choruses of detailed descriptions of a love, so greatly expressed. She had in her previous single, Lady, inclined more with the message of independence and a power claim for women and womanhood, thus pitching her as a feminist. “Feminism is a call for equal rights, and even though seemingly aimed at women because of the term, and the many years of disadvantaged circumstances women have had to deal with in society, it also protects the interests of men too,” Hembadoon said. According to her, it does not alter the dynamics of family but seeks to improve it by encouraging partnership as opposed to dominance. It takes nothing away from the love between a man and a woman, quoting Chimamanda Adiche’s famous saying “we should all be feminists”. Though she had been a behind-the-scene player in the Nigerian entertainment scene, working as an Abuja radio host earlier in her career and as a PR executive for some corporate record labels and public figures for about half a decade, Hembadoon’s musical journey started at a young age, she has previously released a single titled Odo Aye in 2003, while still a student at the University of Jos. In the course of her career, she has been part of a band which went on to come third place in the Benson & Hedges road show in 2004, and served as backup singer for South African singer, Somti, who herself was a backup singer for Paul Simon. She calls her song a potential anthem for women all over the world, adding that her music is written with carefully crafted text; she has a unique sound and delivery, combined with excellent songwriting skills and a creative use of language. Currently working on her debut album project, Hembadoon says the time is now to gift her talent to the world, saying, “women have always changed the world, and women will continue to change the world. “Once upon a time, being such a woman earned you derogatory names, but ‘Lady’ is about the new breed of women who are not stifled, and they are unashamedly proud of their strong personalities and continue to embrace it for what it is,” she stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .