 Primate Ndukuba (left) and Gov. El-Rufai during the cleric’s visit to the Governor at Government House in Kaduna State<br />  The Primate, who recollected that his house in Wusasa, a town in Kaduna State, was burnt during the 1987 religious crisis, was sad that such crisis “is still raising its ugly head” in the state. Ndukuba said his team came to sympathise with him, as well as make the position of Church of Nigeria on peaceful co-existence known, and the need for people to pursue their enterprise in any part of the country they find themselves, no matter their tribe or religion. He explained that everyone should be able to live in peace and pursue their desires in line with the law of the land, especially as they abide by the tenet of their faith and respect others’ faith. “If Christians will stand for what they believe and the Muslims also stand for what they believe, and each one does what he should do, in consideration of his brother, sister and neighbour, I believe that we have all it takes to be a great nation,” he said. Ndukuba assured Governor El-Rufai of the church’s prayers for the state and God’s intervention to “this hydra-headed issue.” He hoped that “the culprits will be brought to book and people will live in peace.” He said the Anglican Church had been a strong promoter of good governance, peaceful co-existence and development, including tackling insecurity. While thanking the Primate, El-Rufai described the church’s visit as an indication of the positive role religion can play in uniting the people. He said the main drivers of the violence over the years have been a few clerics that use their platforms and revered positions to sow seed of acrimony and instigate violence, instead of preaching peaceful co-existence among humanity. “I was sad to hear from the Primate that he was a victim in 1987, when his house was burnt down in Wusasa. In those days, the Primate will recall that this sort of violence started from one part of the state and spread all over the state. One credit that this government gets from everyone, including our adversaries, has been our ability to contain these outbreaks to their points of origin. Government is doing its best to overcome the legacy of violent conflict in the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .