• European body partners INEC on state guber poll
• To deploy tools for operational, logistical efficiency The Ondo State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC) has declared the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) winner in 14 out of 18 local councils in the election conducted in the state on Saturday. Chairman of the commission, Prof. Yomi Dinakin, while announcing the results yesterday, said that seven political parties participated in the election. Dinakin, however, disclosed that there was no contest in five local councils and pronounced APC candidates as winners in the councils where there was no contest. According to him, it was in line with the Electoral Act, which stated that where there is no contestation, any candidate validly nominated should be declared winner. He listed the five councils to include Akoko North East, Ose, Ifedore, Odigbo and Oreke where Mr. Omojola Asimiyu, Dennis Adekunle, Alex Akinyemi Oladimeji, Margret Akinsurojo and Segun Ajimatokin won respectively. Other local councils where the APC won were Ese-Odo where Folawole Sipasi polled 29,360 votes, while in Akoko South East, the APC candidate, Paul Adorujoye, scored 14, 174 votes. Gbenga Olaniyi garnered 24,238 votes in Akure South, Olamigoke Olatuwase got 40,009 votes in Ilaje while Akisuroje Temitayo got 13,250 votes in Ile-Oluji/Okeigbo. In Okitipupa, the APC candidate, Akinrinwa Igbekele got 34,721 votes, Akinsulire Ebenezer got 54,292 to win in Ondo West, Adegbegi Samuel garnered 48,742 votes to win in Owo while Bankole Ogbesetoye got 10,541 votes to win in Akure North. The ODIEC Chairman, who assured that the winners would get their certificates of return afterward, noted that the result of other four local councils, namely: Akoko North West, Idanre, Akoko South West and Ondo , were still being expected. MEANWHILE, to achieve free, fair and credible governorship election in Ondo State, the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES) has concluded arrangement to partner with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on its operational procedures. The ECES Deputy Project Co-ordinator, Mr. Manji Wilson, disclosed this at an implementer workshop organised for INEC officials in Akure, while unveiling the “Ondo Amber Zone Election Monitoring and Support Centre (EMSC). Wilson, who made references to the past achievements of the technology in Anambra, Kogi, Osun and Ekiti states’ governorship elections, more so at the 2019 general elections, said that aside partnering for the operational procedures, the training also borders on developing the logistical efficiency of the commission during the October 10, 2020 election in the state. “The EMSC serves as an important technology-based management tool that seeks to improve the operational and logistical efficiency of electoral commissions during electoral cycles in Africa and beyond. “The European Centre for Electoral Support is committed to strengthening and deepening the democratic process in Nigeria through the implementation of the EU-SDGN programme–Component 1.” Wilson, who noted that the centre was not a profit-making venture but committed to offering electoral assistance to Nigeria and other African countries, mainly with funds from the EU and other EU member-states, said that the ECES trained about 4,500 INEC members of staff on EMSC tools during the 2019 general elections in line with the EU Support to Democratic Governance in Nigeria (EU-SDGN) programme. According to him, two EMSC implementers were organised for INEC management members of staff in 2018 and 2019, reaffirming the centre’s unflinching commitment to innovative electoral management tool. HOWEVER, the Deputy Project Co-ordinator, who appreciated European Union (EU) for its sponsorship, lauded the flexible collaboration between ECES and INEC, saying it enables the laudable and innovative project to come to fruition. Also, the state’s INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Rufus Akeju, said the training was borne out of the efforts by the commission to properly prepare its members of staff for the forthcoming election. Akeju noted that the commission would not loose any guard on the COVID-19 protocols and safety measures put in place by the presidential task force on the pandemic without leaving the difficult terrains. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .