Kano State Government has concluded plans to facilitate the Federal government solid minerals intervention fund to enhance mining value chain and investment opportunity for artisan miners in the state. Besides, the government said it has developed a policy framework to harmonize artisanal mining activities designed to upgrade the method of extracting solid minerals and attract investment opportunities in Kano. Special Adviser to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on Solid Mineral, Balaraba Ibrahim made the disclosure on Sunday during an interactive session with journalists on activities of his office. Balaraba reiterated that Kano can survive with the federal government if its natural resources are well explored Balaraba, who stressed that Kano is naturally endowed with an avalanche of solid mineral reserves that can sustain and boost government GDP, however, regretted that the sector was not getting the attention it deserved. She explained that although the federal government reserves the absolute right on solid minerals, Balaraba stressed that the state government through her office is working to create an enabling environment to artisan miners and investors to enhance economic activities in the host communities. She revealed that part of the initiative of her office is the establishment of a cluster centre where artisan miners would be trained on modern techniques on cutting and punishing of gemstones, the capacity training that will enhance their productivity and reduce resources required to cut the solid minerals in the far distance. Balaraba further disclosed a plan to flag off sensitization and awareness campaign on safety preventive measures for miners on health practising miners is important while embarking on their vocation. She cited the recent outbreak of lead pious in Zamfara state where several miners lost their lives, saying that Kano state government would not allow the outbreak of any disease before taking necessary precautionary measures. According to her, “Kano state can boost quantity and quantity solid mineral deposits and several other natural endowments that can meet the state financial liability and still contribute significantly to the country’s GDP. And I mean, Kano can survive without the federal government, if proper attention is given to the deposited solid mineral resources in the state. Beyond that, I can assure you that if properly harness; Kano’s solid minerals are enough for the entire Northern region to survive. “We are creating synergy with the Federal ministry of Mines and Industries to provide an enabling environment for investors and host communities. My office is working hard to harmonize artisan miners to form cooperative society and regularize their establishment with the ministry of commerce and federal ministry of mines and industries. “Our interest and concern is to make sure artisan miners in Kano are enabled the privilege to access the federal government solid minerals development funds, which is an intervention and opportunity for artisan miners to boost and refine their business. And without all these formalizations in terms of registration I just mention, it would be difficult for them to benefit from the opportunity. The intervention includes provision of facilities and equipment.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .