 Oluwarotimi Akeredolu  Akeredolu, who is seeking re-election under the aegis of All Progressives Congress (APC) and from North District, said the Central District just ruled the state for eight years. He said that Ondo Central District should be patient and wait till after 12 years before it gets to its turn to produce a governor for the state. The governor spoke at the inauguration of a campaign office, which was donated to him in Akure yesterday by an APC governorship aspirant, Ife Oyedele. “We need to work for the party. The APC will continue to rule this state forever if we organise ourselves based on principle. When I complete my four years in the North (senatorial district), it will go back to the South. “The South will rule for another eight years and after that, it will come back to  Ondo Central District. So, it is not yet the turn of Akure (Ondo Central). They should go and wait for their turn. In a bid to present a well-co-ordinated governorship campaign and performance for the forthcoming election across the 18 local councils of the state, Akeredolu has unveiled over 31,000 members campaign committee. He urged the chieftains of the party in Ondo Central and South Senatorial Districts to work for him and the party in the forthcoming election, saying: “Let us work for the party, not only Akeredolu but the APC. We may have challenges here and there, but this party has done well for this country. Opposition is not good, don’t let us allow them to take over this state.” IN the meantime, the state Chairman of APC, Mr. Ade Adetimehin, has urged members to work in unity for the success of the party in the governorship election. Oyedele, one of the APC governorship aspirants, who had earlier donated his campaign office located along Oyemekun Road in Akure to boost the governor’s re-election project, maintained that Akeredolu remains the best option among his co-contestants in the coming poll. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .