The House of Representatives Ad-Hoc Committee has called for peaceful co-existence between tank farm operators and residents of the Ijegun Egba area of Lagos.
 
The call was as a result of complaints received by the House on activities of tank farm owners in the host community.	The lawmakers also reiterated the need for operators to adhere strictly to safety standards, adding that if anything happens to the Ijegun and Kirikiri tank farms today, the country would suffer 35 per cent cut in supply of petroleum products.  The Commissioner for Town Planning and Urban Development, Lagos State, Idris Salako, cautioned the operators be to more responsive and sensitive to the needs of the host communities. “Most of the tank farms at Kirikiri do not have approval permits, but they have all started to regularize their documents with the Ministry. The infrastructure at Satellite Town has been run down by the activities of tank farms. Even if the tank farm operators relocate to Ibeju-Lekki without proper planning, the whole thing will be a failure,” he noted. Similarly, the Deputy Director, Oil and Gas, Ministry of Environment, Nafiu Akinpelu, urged the tank farms to do an operating audit and upgrade their oil-water separating system, in addition to having a global Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on CSR with the host communities to guard against facilities’ sabotage. However, the Alahun of Imoore and Apapa Kingdom, Oba Taofik Akeju-Awojo, said the people agitating for the relocation of the tank farms are those that do not want progress for the community. He added: “Since, the tank farms started operations in the communities, crime rates have dropped, and employment opportunities have been created. If you move the tank farm away, there will be untold hardship and poverty.”
In his submission, the Chief Executive Officer, Emadeb Energy Services, Debo Olujimi, affirmed that the tank farms in Ijegun community have created 3,000 direct and indirect jobs, while promising that they would do more CSR activities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .