Obaseki Cleric canvasses support for governor’s re-election
Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has said that the 12 House of Assembly members-elect, who refused to show up for inauguration, and two others were deceived by the sacked national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole. According to Obaseki, who will fly the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) flag in the September 19 governorship poll, the action denied the lawmakers’ constituents representation in the house. The former APC governor said this during his campaign rally in Adolor Ward 4, Ovia North-East Council. He added that the affected lawmakers, in their selfish pursuits and obedience to their godfather, betrayed the confidence reposed in them by their constituents after the house was proclaimed on June 17, 2019. “The godfather is very deceptive; he deceived 14 members of the Edo State House of Assembly and today they don’t have jobs. “They pretended that they wanted to set up two universities and took all the money to build one and, in three years, nothing was done here. “(But) I went to President Muhammadu Buhari to let him know that we need a Federal College of Education in Ekiadolor, knowing that they have deceived us about having a university in Edo South,” he said. Obaseki expressed appreciation to Buhari for approving a College of Education in Ekiadolor. “Now we have a Federal College of Education in Ekiadolor. They don’t want the school to start as they keep sponsoring protest against the project everyday. Please warn them to stop demonstrating,” he added. MEANWHILE, the Executive Director of Canvassers for Democracy and Rule of law, Rev. Martins Olu, has said that Obaseki deserves the overwhelming support of Edo people in his bid to continue his development strides in the state. “I would have long sold out, but only a foolish man will leave a performing governor whom he has direct access to and who has been good to him to a side that is uncertain and packed already,” he said. Also, chairman of Edo PDP Campaign Council, Chief Dan Orbih, said: “In the eight years of Oshiomhole’s administration, Ekiadolor people were abandoned, as the existing institution in the area was abandoned and a new one built in Iyamho. “Obaseki is paying attention to the existing institution that was neglected by Oshiomhole’s administration. Obaseki has the answers to all the huge problems created by Oshiomhole, but Osagie Ize-Iyamu’s Simple Agenda can’t solve them. “We thank God for Obaseki, who has done well in developing the state. We all have benefited from his developmental strides in the last three years and eight months. Oshiomhole is not God and can’t decide who will become governor in Edo; it’s only the people that can decide.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .