 NCDC Response  Team PHOTO: Twitter  The NCDC made this known on its official twitter handle on Monday. The agency said that eight new deaths were reported,  bringing the total number of fatalities to 896 across the country. The NCDC said that the new infections were recorded in Lagos, the Federal Capital Territory and 13 states. It stated that Lagos topped the list with 88 new cases, while the FCT reported 25 fresh infections. Among others were  Kwara, 33, Osun, 27, Enugu, 25, Abia, 20, Kaduna, 17, Plateau and Rivers,  13 each, Delta,  10, and Gombe,  8. The agency stressed that states with fewer cases include Ogun, 4, Oyo, 3, Katsina,  1 and Bauchi, 1. It disclosed that the Lagos State Government reported the recovery of 10,946 COVID-19 patients who were being managed at home. According to it, till date, 44,129 cases have been confirmed, 20,663 cases discharged and 896 deaths recorded in 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The health agency noted that a multi-sectoral national Emergency Operations Centre (EOC), activated at Level 3, would continue to coordinate the national response activities across the country. Meanwhile, the health agency added that washing of hands frequently with soap under running water was one of the best ways to stop the transmission of diseases like COVID-19 from person to person or after touching contaminated surfaces. “#TakeResponsibility to keep yourself and loved ones safe and healthy. “This election period, #TakeResponsibility by adhering to guidelines to protect ourselves and loved ones from COVID-19, including Physical distancing, Use of hand sanitizer and Use of face mask,” it advised. The NCDC said there was no specific cure for COVID-19, adding however that some trial drugs showed promising results but were yet to be validated for use. “In Nigeria, the use of hydroxychloroquine is only limited to clinical trials. “Please #TakeResponsibility and avoid self-medication,” it stressed. The agency warned that a high percentage of those infected with COVID-19 did not show any symptom of the disease. “So, to protect yourself and everyone around you, wear a face mask, maintain physical distancing, wash your hands frequently and follow all guidelines from the NCDC website,” it said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .