Marks five years of impact
Under 40 CEOs, a community of young business leaders of African descent, has pledged more support for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). In celebration of its 5th anniversary of inspiring young African entrepreneurs, the group said it is committed to empowering the next generation of business leaders. The group also disclosed plans to provide free support services, as well as funding to businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs across Africa, to help cushion the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on businesses. The platform, which has fostered an active community of young people who are leading the transformation of African economies since its launch in 2015, said it is committing more to ensure that the next generations of entrepreneurs are nurtured to be trailblazers and change drivers. Speaking on the anniversary, Executive Director, Under 40 CEOs Africa, Familusi Akin Babajide, said five years was a great milestone to recommit to the organisation’s vision and mission of impacting businesses and entrepreneurs in Africa, especially with the ongoing pandemic that is ravaging economies globally. He said: “In these times, especially with the ongoing pandemic, young African business leaders have had to show resilience. We will continue to support these businesses to ensure that they do not only survive, but thrive. “Ahead of the milestone celebration in October, the governing body of the Under 40 CEOs is opening up its platforms to several young entrepreneurs and aspiring executives, who possess the entrepreneurial qualities and drive to spotlight and enable their businesses. It would also reward current members and new ones with premium offerings, as well as funding.” According to Babajide, 555 new annual membership subscriptions, which are five Platinum, 50 Bronze, and 500 Student memberships would be offered, and all members, including old and new, would be given free access to the course, “Starting a business in Africa,” which is designed and taught by subject matter experts within the African community. Meanwhile, he said 50,500 copies of the book: “Under 40 CEOs: How We Made It In Africa – Volume 1,” would be distributed for free, while five workstations would be allotted to five winning businesses based in Lagos for 12 months, and seed funding of $1,300 given to the five winning businesses. Over the years, the organisation has provided mentorship and networking opportunities, unlimited access to funding, as well as growth acceleration for members and programme participants. This year, the platform is pushing its people-centric mission further, as it continues to expand its reach and celebrate more African achievers across the business spectrum.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .