Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has raised alarm that some persons are planning to blackmail his administration, ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship election. A statement in Akure, yesterday, by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Ojo Oyewamide, said the smear campaign was at advanced stage. “A desperate politician, whose next political leaning in readiness for the October 10 governorship election still remains shrouded in a web of conspiratorial intrigues, sponsored the blackmail, aimed at discrediting the governor,” he said. He also revealed that the smear campaigns was allegedly planted as stories in about three national newspapers beginning from today, Sunday August 8, 2020. He reeled out the conspiracy to include among others “That party chieftains are not happy with Governor Akeredolu, having allegedly reneged on some conditions after winning the party primary. “That the governor allegedly dribbled party leaders, by announcing Lucky Aiyedatiwa as his running mate. It was said to have been agreed that the aggrieved members would choose the running mate. “That such aggrieved members are demanding the dissolution of the current state executive, and that a caretaker committee should be constituted to run the party’s affairs, pending the time a fresh congress would be held. “That civil Servants are also said to be angry with the Governor on the emergence of Dare Aragbaye as the Head of Service (HoS), having allegedly retired about nine Permanent Secretaries to appoint Aragbaye as HoS. “That Aragbaye is holding the position of a PS, DFA in the Governor’s Office after the retirement of Prince Ajibade Ogunoye, the present Olowo of Owo.” Oyewamide, however, noted that the state government, led by Akeredolu, who is also the governorship candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the forthcoming election, was not surprised. “It is imperative to state that these tissues of lies are not unusual, especially in the light of the frustration that has persistently challenged the treacherous moves of the persons behind the lies and blackmail.” He stressed that the governor was committed to the people’s welfare, especially civil servants, whose lives were reduced to nothing, prior to the advent of the current administration in the state. The governor’s aide, who said civil servants cannot forget Akeredolu’s largesse to workers, noted that the post primary scenario within the APC has been that of harmony and cohesion.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .