Burna Boy At the stroke of midnight today, magic happened! Nigerian music superstar Burna Boy released his highly anticipated fifth-studio album”Twice As Tall” album. The album serves as a follow up to is Grammy-nominated “African Giant” and though it is just hours since it’s release, Twice As Tall, has already garnered several positive reactions. International music star Diddy as well as fellow Nigerian music stars like Don Jazzy, 2Baba have nothing but praises for the album. In his praise of the album, Diddy who is credited on Twice As Tall as an executive producer tagged it “Album of the Year” while 2Baba praised Burna’s creativity saying the latter is on another planet. The album carries a unifying sense of pan-African idealism. Speaking about the album to Apple Music, Burna Boy said: “We had about 80% of the album ready before Puff [Combs] jumped on the project,” he reveals. “But once he jumped on board he was working around the clock—nonstop trying to add to this project and deliver for me, and make it really special.” Many will agree that the African Giant has surpassed himself with this latest album. His thoughtfully recruited guest stars on the album also lend to his creative artistry. This is reinforced when he says: “As I’ve said before, ‘We were all Africans before we were anything else,’ and this is the same message here for everyone to wake up and realize that and really know what it means to be aware of it. A part of the album I’m proud of is having top producers from the UK or Nigeria here alongside guys like Mike Dean to co-produce to add that extra to it. It’s giving you that best of both worlds and trying to bridge the gap between them. That’s all part of this process too.” Check below to see some celebrity reactions to Burna Boy’s Twice As Tall. ALBUM OF THE YEAR! #TWICEASTALL by @BurnaBoy — Diddy (@Diddy) August 13, 2020  Burna boy don enter another planet #TWICEASTALL wow. Congrats @burnaboy this one pass grammy level. This is total LEVEL UP — IG: @official2baba (@official2baba) August 14, 2020  You’ve never met the Burna Boy on Monsters You Made on any song. And Chris Martin finished it off with his vocals! — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) August 14, 2020  Had to check the credits for that Burna’s #WaytooBig track cos I could hear Mike Dean at the end. And behold he was there.  . — ITS DONJAZZY AGAIN (@DONJAZZY) August 14, 2020  CONGRATS KING! @burnaboy  LOVING THE VIBES . #TWICEASTALL Hatuwezi acha vela  pic.twitter.com/2hbw3H7DEP — SAUTI SOL (@sautisol) August 14, 2020  I spent the last 1 hour 7 minutes of my life listening to Burna Boys #TWICEASTALL album. No regrets though. I didn’t plan to take any personal and professional development course with that time — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) August 14, 2020  He has done it again, @burnaboy my guy. #AfricanGiant now #TwiceAsTall https://t.co/kv7hpn5dd0 — Bashir Ahmad (@BashirAhmaad) August 14, 2020 