• Jonathan briefs Buhari Mutinous soldiers, yesterday, arrested Malian President Ibrahim Boubakar Keïta and Prime Minister Boubou Cisse. The nation’s opposition group, M5, had insisted on Keita’s removal as a condition to ending the political impasse in the landlocked West African nation. The position, however, conflicts with the stance of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), which had on several occasions, backed a regime change anchored on democratic tenets. Briefing President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday at the State House, Abuja on the outcome of his last week’s meetings with relevant stakeholders in Bamako, former Nigerian leader and ECOWAS Special Envoy to Mali, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, said he made it categorically clear to the warring parties that no international organisation, including the United Nations (UN) and the African Union (UN), would succumb to an undemocratic means, urging dialogue as a panacea. The former president had during his Monday to Thursday engagements last week with political and religious leaders, ambassadors of U.S., France, Russia, Germany, European Union and other important personalities key to peace and cohesion in the country, stated: “We told them that no international organisation, including the African Union (AU), United Nations (UN) and others, would agree with their position. We have continued to emphasise the need for dialogue.” He added that the Constitutional Court had been reconstituted, while vacancies in the Supreme Court had been filled, thus sorting out the judicial arm of government. Read More: Mali president and PM ‘arrested’ Buhari and four other ECOWAS leaders had last month visited the Malian capital in search for truce followed by a virtual extraordinary summit of the sub-regional body. The Nigerian first citizen lauded Jonathan for what he called “the stamina you have displayed on the Mali issue” hinting of more consultations with the ECOWAS chairman and Nigerien leader, Mahamadou Issoufou.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .