Commissions Factory In Sango
As part of efforts aimed at making Nigeria a model in food security and also the food basket of Africa, GBfoods has promised to intensify efforts in the cultivation of soybeans to boost the production of its mayonnaise. Managing Director, GBfoods Africa, Nigeria Business Unit, Mr. Vincent Egbe, who disclosed this during the commissioning of its state-of-the-art factory in Sango, Ogun State, said its soybean farm in Kebbi is comparably one of the largest farms in the country. According to him, the factory, which is the largest in Sub Saharan Africa, supporting the manufacturing of the original recipe Bama mayonnaise for Nigeria and West Africa, has successfully rolled out its first batch of products to the Nigerian market recently. The firm is a subsidiary of GBfoods Africa, a partnership between GBfoods and Helios Investment Partners. The Chief Executive Officer of the firm, Mr. Vicenç Bosch reiterated Bama’s commitment to maintaining its original recipe developed over 80 years ago in the United States of America, while being produced in Nigeria.	  He said the investment is an added assurance of the company’s commitment to continually contribute to Nigeria’s economic and social development through the localisation of its products. “The factory draws from a blend of GBfoods rich global practices and regional experiences to support consumers’ growing needs, while highlighting the opportunity for their communities to be a part of the long-standing heritage. This will, in turn, make Nigeria a key export hub for Africa and will further lead to the creation of jobs and the development of human capital in the country. “Our priority when building this international standard production facility in Nigeria was to make sure we were able to meet the demands of our customers not only in Nigeria but also in other African countries. In addition to the new factory, the company has also unveiled a new packaging design, featuring a quality stamp to reiterate the product’s category-leading position, and to emphasise its superior quality and taste to consumers.” The Business Unit Marketing Director, Cletus Onyebuoha, said Bama had continued to deliver the best premium quality mayonnaise to the Nigerian market. According to him, it is a trusted symbol of love with consumers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .