Freedom of expression is considered one of the cardinal pillars and cornerstone of fundamental rights in human rights philosophy and entire legal jurisprudence. But it appears to be one of the most confronted genre of fundamental freedoms in Nigeria. There are litanies of past events that buttress and strengthen this claim. But recognising the foundational significance of this freedom, a learned Professor of law, Osita Nnamani Ogbu  in his book, Human Rights Law and Practice in Nigeria(2nd Revised Edition Vol 1), recapitulated the expressions of one of the most influential British philosophers in the traditional history of liberty, John Stuart Mill, where he stated that: If all mankind minus one, were of one opinion, and only one person were of the contrary opinion, mankind would be no more justified in silencing that one person, than he, if he had the power, would be justified in silencing mankind…. The peculiar evil of silencing the expression of one opinion is that it is robbing the human race, posterity as well as the existing generation, those who dissent from the opinion still more than those who hold it. If the opinion is right, they are deprived of the opportunity of exchanging error for truth; if wrong, they lose what is almost as great benefit, the clearer perception and the livelier impression of truth, produced by its collision with error.
  
The above postulations portray the laudable significance of freedom of expression as an age-long principles which is in tandem with moral reasoning and just laws. What is worrisome, in the opinion of the writer, is our constant refusal to measure up with global ethical and legal standards.  For instance, it is no longer ‘news’ that Nigerians were recently besieged by a proposed bill tagged “Hate Speech Bill”. What may however be ‘news’ as it stands anyways is that the atmosphere seems to be witnessing a sudden disappearance of the hype and hysteria that was orchestrated by the controversial bill.  Evidently, the bill is bereft of clear definition as to what amount to ‘hate speech’. It is fundamentally short-sighted in form and in substance as it failed to recognise or take into consideration the existence of numerous relevant laws that tends to regulate harmful speeches and conducts. The last time this author checked, the law of sedition, law of defamation, and other avalanche of publication laws are still part of Nigerian laws. They may be silent, but they are not dead. All they need is legal life wire to make them effective.
 
From the above, there are proofs of strategic attempt by the leadership to jostle away an essential part of societal fundamental freedom, and systematically enthrone dictatorial tendency in a constitutional democracy. In civilized societies, fundamental freedoms and democratic principles grow and mature simultaneously with the ever dynamic character of the world order.  Unfortunately, Nigeria finds pleasure in romancing archaic norms and stagnated policies.
  
It is the humble view of this treatise that the civil society organizations such as the human rights bodies and by extension, the judiciary, have significant roles to play in ensuring that freedom of expression and sundry freedoms do not die a perpetual death in Nigeria. The time to rise against this perennial impunity, mischief and draconian legislature is long overdue. Nigerian society must of necessity be delivered from the shackles of anti-freedom enactments. To achieve this, Robertson and Merrils in the book, ‘Human Rights in the World…’ advised that: “The mounting pressure of public opinion in the years to come will continue to have an effect in persuading or shaming government, which systematically violate human rights to improve. …lawyers have a particularly important role to play, one might say, special responsibility…the Universal declaration call on every individual and every organ of the society to strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights and freedom …to secure their …effective recognition and observance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .