Adele is a member of the Beyhive, a term used to refer to fans of American R&B singer Beyoncé, and the “Hello” singer is showing her appreciation for Beyoncé’s visual album, “Black Is King“. In a recent picture shared on her Instagram page, Adele sat beneath a television with the album playing on the screen. The English singer-songwriter also matched Beyoncé’s brown Marine Serre catsuit with her own crescent moon-printed top from the designer. “Thank you Queen for always making us all feel so loved through your art,” she captioned the picture along with two black heart emojis. Adele | Image: Instagram/adele This is not the first time Adele is publicly declaring her admiration for Beyoncé. In her speech for winning Album of the Year for 25 at the 2017 Grammys, Adele insisted the award should have gone to Beyoncé, for Lemonade. “But I can’t possibly accept this award. And I’m very humbled and I’m very grateful and gracious. But my artist of my life is Beyoncé. And this album to me, the “Lemonade” album, is just so monumental. Beyoncé, it’s so monumental. And so well thought out, and so beautiful and soul-baring and we all got to see another side to you that you don’t always let us see. And we appreciate that. And all us artists here adore you. You are our light.” Read More:
“Black Is King” Is A Celebration Of African Tradition
Let’s Talk About Beyonce’s “Black Is King” Later in the press room, Adele narrated how she fell in love with Beyoncé: “I am a Beyoncé fan. I remember when I was 11 years old, I was with some girlfriends, and we were practising a song to do at an assembly. I probably suggested the Spice Girls, and they said have you heard (Destiny’s Child’s) ‘No No No’? And I was like, ‘no, no, no.’ I remember how I felt hearing her voice. I fell in love immediately with her. The way I felt when I first heard ‘No No No’ was exactly the same as when I first heard Lemonade last year. …” “Black Is King” is a musical film and visual album which serves as a visual companion to the 2019 album The Lion King: The Gift, the soundtrack from the 2019 film remake of The Lion King. The album was released globally to stream on Disney+ on July 31, 2020, and was aired the following day across Sub-Saharan Africa on M-Net and Canal+ Afrique and across the Middle East and North Africa on OSN.