Akwa United FC of Uyo will strive to win the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) crown, the club chairman, Paul Bassey, has said. To this effect, he has mandated Coach Kennedy Boboye to assemble a crack squad that will lead the club to the elusive title this coming season. In his end of the year message to players and management of the team in Uyo yesterday, the club chairman also instructed the coach to identify areas of need in order to fill such gaps with the right players before the commencement of the new league season. The FIFA/CAF match commissioner maintained that despite the problems posed by COVID-19 that saw the league suspended last season, the club remained grateful to God and Governor Udom Emmanuel for sustaining them as force to be reckoned with in Nigerian football circle. “Since the advent of the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration, Akwa United have been the club to beat. Two FA Cups in four years, with a League standing not lower than fourth, except this year, when the League was truncated with a whopping 13 matches to go. “Akwa United is one of the very few clubs that has paid players salary up to date. The welfare of players is primary. We are not owing any bonus, we are not owing any player clearance fees. We thank his Excellency Governor Udom Emmanuel for a high level of governance that has no comparison when it comes to service delivery and welfare of workers in the State.” Bassey commended the State Commissioner for Youth and Sports Mr. Monday Uko, for his commitment and belief in the team even in trying times, adding that, preparations for the new season will commence in earnest. Meanwhile, the club have instituted an internal five-man team to tidy up all issues relating to the licensing requirements of both CAF and LMC. The committee has the Team Manager, Mr. Emmanuel Udoh, as Chairman. Other members are the Club Secretary, Mr. Omon Bassey, the Welfare Officer Mr. Asuquo Samuel, the Club Psychologist, Coach Ime Uko, while the team’s Media Manager, Mr. Mfon Patrick, will serve as Secretary.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .