 Augustine Alegeh  Prior to that petition, the group had described the elections as a “robbery,” adding that it had identified no less than 4000 fake telephone numbers and 1004 fake emails deployed to rig the elections. Olowokure said: “One can confidently say the alleged victory of Paul Usoro (SAN) at the recently conducted NBA elections is the biggest embarrassment and robbery that members of NBA have ever experienced since the formation of NBA. You would recall that there were serious reservations in some quarters about permitting Chams to participate in providing services in this election in any form or manner. As a result of these reservations a company known as CRENET was brought in to repeat the vilified verification exercise previously conducted by Chams.
  
“For some inexplicable reason, Chams was retained to provide the voting platform despite it being established that the Chairman of Chams Plc and Usoro (SAN) are co-directors of Access Bank and are members of the same committees of Access Bank. Trusting in the assurances given by the President of NBA, A.B Mahmoud (SAN) and the ECNBA, the other candidates decided to participate in the election with Chams involved.” Following the petition, the EFCC carried out a detailed forensic investigation, which has resulted in prosecution of two identified suspects at the Federal High Court, Lagos.
  
Unfortunately for the NBA, the 2020 elections did not make any difference in erasing doubts about the possibility of fraud, rigging and manipulations. Zoned to the South West, comprising the former Midwestern Region, three formidable candidates emerged. They were Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN), Dr. Babatunde Ajibade (SAN) and Mr. Olumide Akpata, a member of the outer bar. During the build up to the election, Akpata had raised alarm about the possibility of electoral fraud. In two separate letters, which he addressed to the chairman of the ECNBA, he questioned the verification process and hired his own digital forensic team to test the integrity of the NBA portal. He communicated the forensic audit report, which indicated that the portal was insecure to the ECNBA and also published the same in national dailies.  While Ajibade has congratulated Akpata, Adesina, who came third in the poll, is aggrieved over the outcome. He has also rejected the results and called for its cancellation. Similarly, the umbrella body of lawyers of Yoruba extraction known as Egbe Amofin disagrees with the outcome. In a communique issued at its emergency meeting on August 1, 2020, the group said the 2020 Election of National Officers was conducted in breach of the provisions of the NBA Constitution. Part of its grouse was that the ECNBA created a Diaspora branch of the NBA for voting contrary to the stipulation of the Constitution. “Failure to make available the final voters’ list 28 days before the election as prescribed by the Constitution; large scale disenfranchisement of a significant number of lawyers who underwent the verification process; removal from the final voters’ list the names of voters without lawful justification leading to their disenfranchisement; the unlawful inflation of the number of voters assigned to some branches as well as the unlawful declaration of an inconclusive election as final results notwithstanding the fact that the number of verified voters who were unlawfully disenfranchised was significant to affect the final outcome of the election,” it declared in a communiqué signed by Chief Adeniyi Akintola (SAN) Chairman, Egbe Amofin Steering Committee  and Oluwole Akintayo Secretary, Egbe Amofin chairmen of branches.
  
The group therefore stated that it would not recognize the result of the election. Apart from also calling for the cancellation of the election and for the board of trustees to appoint a caretaker committee to oversee the affairs of the association for six months within which to conduct a credible poll, it sought to halt the inauguration of the newly elected national officers. They also communicated these decisions to the chairman of the NBA board of trustees, Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN). It is unclear whether Agbakoba would be willing to accede to the request.
  
Reacting to Egbe Amofin’s communique, former chairman of the NBA Ikorodu branch, Mr. Bayo Akinlade, while agreeing that there is a need for electoral reform in the NBA, rejected the call for the cancellation of the election. Akinlade, who contested for the office of the first vice president in the election and loss said although there were irregularities, they were not sufficient enough to warrant another election. “While I agree with the grounds of Egbe Amofin’s complaints and share in the logic of having much needed reforms, I struggle however, to agree with the calls for cancellation of the just concluded elections. As one who contested in the last elections and came third out of six contestants, I have my own doubts but those doubts are not enough for me to go all out asking for another election.
  
“We all had something to complain about in the run up to this election but that’s all we really did. We just complained, no contestant withdrew his candidacy or threatened to do so if ECNBA didn’t comply. We all went to the poll knowing full well that the process was flawed,” he said.
  
He blamed Egbe Amofin for adopting a single candidate for the election instead of maintaining neutrality, insisting that since it took side with a candidate, it has lost the right to speak for the Yoruba lawyers. “May I use this opportunity to call on my elders within Egbe Amofin to accept this election with all its flaws but use their influences, leverage and expertise to promote structures that would ensure free and fair elections within the NBA in 2022 and beyond,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .