Ikpeazu orders closure of market over attack on fire service men in Aba Abia State government has said that it is creating a platform for traditional rulers in the state to enable them play more active roles in governance. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu disclosed this yesterday while inaugurating the state’s Eighth Traditional Rulers Council/Assembly with a charge that they study and align with the policies of the state government with a view to domesticating them in their domains for the benefit of their people. He consequently directed the state’s Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Chief Gabriel Onyendilefu, to create the interface for the rulers and government to synergise. “I am very proud of the conduct and character of our traditional rulers in the discharge of their duties as custodians of our culture and I direct the Ministry of Agriculture to involve them in the distribution of fertilisers and other farming inputs,” he said. While presenting the assembly members to the governor for formal inauguration, Onyendilefu, who gave their number as 92 plus the chairman and his three deputies, each for the three zones of the state, said that the leadership of the assembly had been rotating among the three zones of the state. Also, Chairman of the inaugurated assembly, Eze Joseph Ndubuisi Nwabeke of Eziama Ntigha in Isiala North Local Council, assured the governor that the Eighth assembly would work in accordance with government policies, saying: “There will be a difference between us and the past councils.” In another development, the Chief Staff to the Governor, Dr. Anthony Agbazuere, in a statement, said that following the unwarranted attack on men of the Abia State Fire Service and the destruction of Abia State Fire Service vehicles, Governor Ikpeazu had approved the immediate closure of Umuehilegbu Industrial Market, popularly called Bakasi Market, Aba. He added that the Chairman and all members of the said Umuehilegbu Industrial Market Management Committee were by the announcement suspended while police and other security agencies are to safeguard the market and equally arrest all perpetrators of the illicit acts for consequential prosecution.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .