 Olisa Agbakoba  According to him, necessary reforms must be undertaken in the judiciary to promote the rule of law. While hosting the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) President-Elect, Mr. Olumide Akpata, at his office in Ado Ekiti, the governor explained that he had led a delegation on behalf of the forum to meet with the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Ibrahim Tanko Mohammad, and the President of the Court of Appeal, Justice Monica Dongban-Mensem to reach a common front on the modality for the implementation of judicial autonomy across the states of the federation.  Former dean, faculty of law, University of Lagos, Prof Isaac Agbede said in constitutional economics studies such issues as the proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary, is controlled by the executive in many transitional and developing countries. “Such undermines the principle of checks and balances, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. It is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the state (through budget planning and various privileges – being the most dangerous), and the private. The state corruption of the judiciary makes it almost impossible for any business to optimally facilitate the growth and development of national market economy,” he stated.
   
For the director, Access to Justice, Mr. Joseph Otteh, the Judiciary’s need for independence is self-evident. He expressed hope that the 4th Alteration to the Constitution can help fill a gap in the area of fiscal autonomy – at least at the State level – where this has been a perennial challenge. “The inability of State judiciaries to control the Judiciary’s appropriations has been a constant reference in past debates on the subject,” Otteh said. 
   
He however pointed out that the absence of financial independence is not the reason for the Judiciary’s under-performance. “In fact, some might point out that Nigeria’s Judiciary suffers more from having too much independence than lacking it, within the context of there being so very little by way of accountability of the institution for its exercise of constitutionally guaranteed autonomy. 
   
“Why is the Judiciary, for example, still stuck in 20th Century justice delivery molds and not adapted to the dynamic of the 21st when it is clear that the old is suffocating the administration of judicial justice? What has the Judiciary achieved with budgets that ought to have enabled it to transit from a manual, analog system to a digital system like many developing countries are doing? Why are different divisions of high courts and Courts of Appeal – sometimes even the apex court – speaking with discordant voices of jurisprudence – giving sometimes-conflicting judgments on the same subject matter? Why is the Judiciary not putting Nigeria’s best foot forward in terms of those who it selects to exercise judicial functions?” He asked. Otteh argued that while Nigerians can express concern about judicial autonomy, but more than that, the country needs a Judiciary that is more accountable to the Nigerian people for its use of its very unique powers.
   
Until there are concrete steps by the federal and state governments to implement the provisions of the constitution as it pertains to fiscal independence of the judiciary, all the speeches and seemingly good deeds towards the sector amount to motion without movement. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .