No fewer than 25,000 beneficiary households are awaiting the Federal Government’s Conditional Cash Transfer and other intervention programmes of the government. The Head of Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) Unit, Ralph Enukorah, in an interview with The Guardian in his office at the Government House, Awka, yesterday, confirmed that 25,070 beneficiaries are awaiting enrolment in the remaining 15 local councils. The enrolment, according to him, will soon begin as soon as fund is got from the national headquarters. Enukorah, who disclosed that 8,105 were actually receiving the financial benefits, said: “We don’t pay monthly as we have six payment cycles, meaning that each beneficiary receives N10,000 bi-monthly in the affected local councils. “The money is not for personal use, but for each household. Actually, if you don’t receive, a member of your family, kindred or village receives.” Meanwhile, the Head of Operations of CCT, Florence Ngozi Nwakor, who hinted that the purpose of the Federal Government’s intervention was to improve household consumption, create access to better healthcare and education, and improve livelihood, said: “The beneficiary will go for training to acquire necessary knowledge and skills for self-reliance. “The ultimate benefit is to have behavioural change, improved household livelihoods and nutrition, as well as education.” Also, the Co-ordinator of the State Operations Co-ordination Unit (SOCU), Bede Okoli, said that SOCU undertakes pre-sensitisation of each affected traditional ruler in the selected local councils, followed by the sensitisation and mobilisation of stakeholders, including the monarchs, community leaders, religious leaders, village heads, representatives of women groups (Umuada/Umuokpu), youth groups, age-groups and any other interest groups. He noted that, after the foregoing, there would be community engagement involving members of the community who are broken into Men-Focus Group, Women Focus Group, and Youth Focus Group, and perhaps, Disabled Persons Focus Group.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .