•WHO, Yobe Celebrate With Covid-19 Survivors
•Police Ease Vehicle Restriction Movements Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar El-Kanemi and Governor Babagana Zulum attended yesterday’s Eid-el-Kabir prayers amid Thursday’s attacks in Maiduguri. The rocket-propelled attacks, according to the police, were fired into Customs and Gwange communities, killing two persons and 16 others critically injured. Leading thousands of Muslims for the prayers at Ramat Square, Maiduguri, Imam Idaini of Borno state, Shettima Mamman Shettima called for the unity of people with ‘raka’at prayers’ to end COVID-19 and the return of peace in the state. Also, the Yobe state police command yesterday eased restrictions of vehicles to ensure a hitch-free and safe celebration among Muslims across the state. The lift of the ban on vehicles restrictions was eased yesterday since the decade long Boko Haram insurgency claimed over 36,000 lives in the Northeast. Spokesman of Command, ASP Abdulkarim Dungus in a statement said adequate measures have been placed to provide security at all praying grounds, mosques and other places of public gathering and urged people to provide useful information on suspicious persons, vehicles and other objects to the police. Governor Mai Mala Buni also urged the people to exhibit good neighbourliness through love, peaceful coexistence and generosity in the spirit of the celebration. In a related development, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and Yobe state government yesterday celebrated with survivors of COVID-19. Rejoicing with them in Damaturu, WHO’s Public Health Officer, Ibrahim Salisu, disclosed that there was a need to put more effort in the fight against the virus. State’s Commissioner of Health, Muhammed Gana, said the aim of the celebration was to minimize trauma amongst recovered and discharged patients. Some of the survivors shared their experiences and advised the public to adhere to the protocols that guard against being infected. Hauwa Abare, a COVID-19 survivor and nurse said she contracted the virus while treating patients. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .