A group in the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to relieve the service chiefs of their positions, saying it was time he carried out the action to save his administration and the country from “embarrassment”. The APC Consolidation Group (APG) lauded the security chiefs for the successes recorded so far, especially pushing insurgency to the fringes of the North East, stopping suicide bombings in the country and bringing some reforms to the Armed Forces of Nigeria. Saying the unabated insecurity situation informed its appeal, the group, however, reminded the president that the security heads were not indispensable. In a statement signed by its National Coordinator, Dr. Usman Mohammed, yesterday, APG expressed worry over insecurity in the land, which, it noted, was not getting better despite the efforts of the president. The group argued that the ugly security situation might cause food insecurity next year, while calling on the president to hearken to “voice of the majority” that new hands were needed in the country’s security architecture. Mohammed said: “We, the leadership and members of APC Consolidation Group, wish to appeal to our dear President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari, to sack the current service chiefs without further delay. “Our position is because we have seen that the president may lose the support of Nigerians over the embarrassing security situation we are facing if he doesn’t act fast enough. “We are very disturbed by the president’s continued refusal to sack them despite calls by most Nigerians in the midst of the disturbing insecurity in the land, including the president’s hometown.” Noting that no part of Nigeria is safe today, the group wondered what was so special about the service chiefs that made the president refuse to get in other officers? “The president and all of us suffered so hard to sell APC to Nigerians in the 2015 general election, and our campaign promises were hinged on security, anti-corruption, economy and agriculture. “Today, we in the APC states are the worst hit of the insecurity. Our farmers can’t go to the farm, and nomads can’t graze their cattle anymore.” The group noted the reported low morale in the military over the continued stay of the service chiefs whose tenures had since elapsed. “Who knows if there are unseen hands out there in the service frustrating the fight against insurgency and insecurity in the country deliberately due to the continued stay of the service chiefs? This is why we appeal to the president to hearken to the call by the majority of Nigerians as reflected in the country’s parliament recently that it’s time for him to do the needful,” APG added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .