Governor Oyetola of Osun. Photo: TWITTER/GBOYEGAOYETOLA • Approves appointment of three monarchs
• Cancels activities during Osun Osogbo festival The Osun State government has said that with effect from next academic session, the recommendations in Education Review White Paper, which focused on restructuring and re-modification of some extant education policies in the state, will be implemented. The state’s Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, in a statement, yesterday, said that the decision was taken by the State Executive Council. Egbemode said the recommendations in the white paper highlighted key areas in which the Ministry of Education and stakeholders in the sector would strengthen their approaches towards achieving greater effectiveness and producing measurable learning outcomes for students. She said: “Following proper consultation with stakeholders on education across the state, the state government has approved the recommendations in the white paper with respect to improving the system’s functionality for implementation.” The commissioner, who stated that the new academic session would see the schools adopting the 6-3-3-4 education system as against the old 4-5-3-4, said: “Other policies to be implemented include, each school resuming the use of their original school uniforms instead of the single uniform regime that has been in place. This, according to stakeholders, is critical to the restoration of a sense of identity in students, and also, to check the spate of indiscipline and truancy in our schools. “Also, single-gender schools that were changed to mixed schools shall return to the old orders, while schools’ nomenclatures shall also return to the names they used to bear.” Meanwhile, the state government has approved the appointment of Prince Benjamin Ajibade Abiona as Onila of Ila-Odo in Odo Otin North Local Council Development Area; Prince Adebayo Adesuyi Joseph as Apaula of Ipaula Ijesha in Atakumosa East Local Council and Prince Adewunmi Ogidiolu as Oniwoye of Iwoye-Ijesha in Oriade Local Council. In another development, the state government has banned social activities and gatherings during the grand finale of the yearly Osun Osogbo festival slated for tomorrow. The state’s Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Obawale Adebisi, who announced the decision in a statement, yesterday, said the decision became imperative due to the increasing number of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in the state. He said approval had only been granted to observance of traditional rites and routines associated with the festival and that only authorised persons and worshippers would be allowed into the grove.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .