To update the knowledge of its personnel to global standard, the Nigeria School Sports Federation (NSSF) has organised a three-day virtual capacity building programme for coordinators and Physical and Health Education teachers from the 36 states of the federation and the FCT, Abuja. The training, tagged “Effective Teaching of Physical and Health Education and Management of School Sports in The New Normal,” was held from July 21 to 23 with over 500 participants. According to NSSF President, Olabisi Joseph, the training was aimed at updating the knowledge of those in charge of sports in schools across the country. “We believe that continuous learning is the key to success in any chosen field and the achievement of any organisation largely depends on the knowledge possessed and applied by its work force. Therefore, training is a key factor in the seven-point development agenda of the new NSSF administration. “It cannot be over emphasized that school sports is the bedrock of sustainable sport development. We need to productively engage our teachers to be able to identify talents, encourage, inspire and develop the children, so that school sports will be able to create a pool of athletes that sports federations can draw from,” she added. The programme had 74 school sports coordinators, 222 primary school teachers and 222 secondary school teachers in attendance for the three days the event was held. Resource persons were drawn from University of Ibadan (UI), Lagos State University (LASU), Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (ABU) and University of Calabar (UNICAL). Among the topics discussed were Sports Event Management in the new normal, Strategic Funding for Schools With Current Realities, Talent Identification and Management During and After the Pandemic, as well as Promoting School Sports through Curriculum in Light of the Pandemic. NSSF, which is affiliated to the International School Sports Federation (ISF), said the webinar aimed at keeping school sports coordinators and teachers abreast with globally acceptable tools for the effective teaching and management of school sport during the COVID-19 and post COVID-19, will be organized quarterly.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .