 Public Relations Manager, Tolaram Group, Omotayo Abiodun (left), Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Oluyemi Kalesanwo; Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Cecilia Bolaji Dada; Marketing Representative, Lush Hair, Toyin Iyoha and Sponsorship Manager, Tolaram Group; Opeyemi Awojobi at the ongoing Women Assembly Program across all LCDAs in Lagos State organised by the Ministry of Women Affairs in Lagos…recently<br />  The initiative officially kicked off from Surulere Local Council Secretariat and was presided over by the Commissioner of Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Honorable Cecelia Bolaji Dada, who encouraged women to speak up against any form of abuse, while ensuring to take care of their mental health and physical wellness. The Commissioner stated that beneath the seemingly strong outward appearance, many women are being faced with unimaginable sexual and gender based violence (SGBV), which they may have been self-managing for too long. Irrespective of these situations, she commended the strong and resilient capability of these women, while admitting that their roles in nation building cannot be over emphasised. Lush Hair, which came onboard as sponsor, has described its participation in the ongoing programme as a strategic plug to further demonstrate commitment to its various target audience in the state. Toyin Iyoha, marketing representative for the brand, stated that being a part of the even was very rewarding, as most women would find the discussions useful and life changing. “It clearly highlights different kinds of issues women go through in the society and how help can be sought in order to address such situations. We are a proudly Nigerian quality brand specially designed to meet the beauty needs of the African woman, which is why we will always bend towards supporting strategic women-oriented activities. The brand represents the confident, modern and trendy woman,” she said. Also speaking at the event, Omotayo Abiodun, Public Relations Manager, Tolaram Group said, “we are delighted to collaborate with the Lagos State Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation on this project and we hope this will lead to a lasting and sustainable relationship. As a brand whose core target is women, we will always strive towards assisting women while also encouraging them to be confident and always stay on top of their game irrespective of their background and societal status.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .