After a successful pilot run with select Fintechs in early 2020, the Pan-African Banking Sandbox of Ecobank Group (www.Ecobank.com) is now live and acessible, on request, to the African Fintech community. The Sandbox allows Fintechs to access Ecobank’s Application Programming Interface (APIs) for the development of innovative solutions.  The Sandbox is a major milestone for the Ecobank Group on it’s Open Banking strategy and it will accelerate partnership with Fintechs and other Partners across Africa.  The Sandbox will position the annual Ecobank Fintech Challenge beyond a competition to a Developer Platform and Marketplace of fintech solutions.  The Group Executive, Technology and Operations – Mr. Eddy Ogbogu stresses that “As the Pan-African bank, Ecobank is committed to the growth of  the Pan-African Fintech Ecosystem. This Sandbox is designed to facilitate this objective. Innovative Fintechs, start-ups, product developers and technology partners are invited  to leverage the platform to actualise their pan-African dreams.”  Group Senior Fintech Advisor – Djiba Diallo noted that “The Sandbox is designed to be relevant to the needs of the Ecosystem. There were really positive reviews from the pilot as well as some valuable feedback which  helped in finetuning the platform for Live launch. The pilot indeed helped both Ecobank and Fintechs get the best out of the Sandbox. We are excited about the new opportunities it brings  to the ecosystem and customers.”  Omosalewa “O” Adeyemi, Global Head of Expansion & Partnerships at Flutterwave said: “This is an innovative platform we were able to carry out mobile money, card payment transactions conveniently. The platform also provided APIs that allow a merchant identify itself for future merchant terminal creation as well as generate unique merchant and dynamic QR payment codes Merchants in any case are also able to generate their account statement for holistic account overview. We look forward to incorporating these services on our payment platform”  Fintechs and Partners can go to https://bit.ly/3gDTKZX to learn more. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Ecobank. Media Contact:
Christiane Bossom
Group Communications Manager
Email: cbossom@ecobank.com
Tel: +228 22 21 03 03 About Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’ or ‘The Group’):
Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (‘ETI’) is the parent company of the Ecobank Group (www.Ecobank.com), the leading independent pan-African banking group. The Ecobank Group employs over 15,000 people and serves about 20 million customers in the consumer, commercial and corporate banking sectors across 33 African countries. The Group has a banking license in France and representative offices in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Johannesburg, South Africa; Beijing, China; London, the UK and Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. The Group offers a full suite of banking products, services and solutions including bank and deposit accounts, loans, cash management, advisory, trade, securities, wealth and asset management. ETI is listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchanges in Lagos, the Ghana Stock Exchange in Accra, and the Bourse Régionale des Valeurs Mobilières in Abidjan. For further information please visit www.Ecobank.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .