 Nigerian Army PHOTO: Twitter  Acting Director of Defense, Media Operation, Brig.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko who made this known said suspected bandits and camps were destroyed by troops of Operation Sahel Sanity. Onyeuko was speaking on Monday while briefing reporters on recent activities of the operation at the operation’s Army Camp IV in Faskari council area. He added that the troops apprehended an arms supplier who later died due to diabetic complications, while cache of arms were recovered. Said he: “On 12 August 2020, in a combined special clearance operation, troops destroyed 12 bandit camps at Yobe Baranda in Batsari LGA of Katsina State. “Three bandits were neutralized in the process while others escaped with various degrees of gunshot wounds.” He said troops of the operation deployed at “Forward Operation Base Sabon Birni LGA of Sokoto State on 15 August 2020 after a painstaking undercover operation, successfully smashed a notorious illegal arms smuggling syndicate who specializes in massive arms supply to bandits in the North West from across the international borders. “The trio of Alhaji Adamu Alhassan, Salisu Adamu and Abdullahi Sani (all Nigerien citizens) were intercepted by the eagle-eyed troops at Dantudu in Mailailai District of Sabon Birni LGA of Sokoto State with 6 AK 47 Rifles, 3 AK 47 Rifle magazines and 2,415 rounds of 7.62mm Special ammunition deceptively concealed in various parts of their vehicle. “Preliminary investigation reveals that the dangerous consignment was meant for some bandits in Isah LGA of Sokoto State which could have led to the loss of thousands of innocent lives but for the swift interception by the vigilant troops. “However, one of the arrested arms supplier, Alhaji Adamu Alhassan who is diabetic and hypertensive experienced seizure and gave up the ghost while he was being rushed to the hospital. “Nevertheless, investigation of the other two accomplices continues in order to track and arrest all those in the chain of the heinous activity in collaboration with other intelligence and security agencies from our neighbouring countries.” Onyeuko said successes achieved in recent times by the troops couldn’t have been possible without the cooperation of residents who provide vital security information. He commended “the general populace of the North-West zone for their cooperation in providing information without which the tremendous successes we have achieved so far would not have been possible. “As partners in progress, we still solicit timely and actionable intelligence that will assist the troops. “It is hoped the enemy would soon be defeated. Our gallant troops are equally encouraged for their commitment and resilience in the course of this operation,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .