• Hit-And-Run Driver Kills Man 
There was uproar in Iseyin, a town in Oke-Ogun area of Oyo  State,  on Friday,  when  a Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) officer reportedly shot an executive member of the proscribed National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lateef Aboki, at Iseyin-Moniya Park. The unnamed officer was among three others in mufti and in a private Lexus Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV), who chased a public transport vehicle to the park, on suspicion it was carrying a bag of rice. The Head of the park, Mr. Lateef Shittu (alias akue) said he got a call that one of his executive members was shot by a Customs officer and he immediately contacted the Divisional Police officer (DPO), Iseyin, who came and took control of situation. The Customs officers were said to have fled  after Aboki was hit by a bullet. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Mr.  Abimbola Fawole,  who was at the scene, persuaded the motorists not to take laws into their hands, and later towed the Lexus Jeep to the police station for further investigation. All efforts to get reactions of the Oyo/Osun  Area Command of NCS proved abortive, as calls placed to its Public Relations Officer, Mr.  Abiola-Lagos Abdullahi, were not picked. Meanwhile, a hit-and-run driver , same Friday, killed a young man, who tried to cross the expressway at the JAMZ FM Junction, along Lagos-Ibadan Road, Challenge, Ibadan. The Special Rescue Team of the Oyo State Road Transport Management Authority (OYRTMA) deposited his remains at Adeoyo morgue. In a statement by the agency and signed by its Executive Chairman, OYRTMA, Mogaji Akin Fagbemi, drivers are advised to be vigilant and always slow down for pedestrians crossing the road, especially at night. “While this kind of incidents remain quite unfortunate and highly regrettable, we commiserate with the family and loved ones of all the victims of hit and run across the State,” he said.
Spokesperson, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Oyo State Sector Command, Chijioke Inyama confirmed the incident. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .