State distributes COVID-19 protective materials to schools The striking National Association of Government General and Medical and Dental Practitioners (NAGGMDP) in Ekiti State has accused the state government of paying lip service to delivering the desired healthcare services to the people of state. The association made the assertion in a statement jointly signed by its Chairman, Dr. Kolawole Adeniyi and Secretary, Dr. Toyese Adeleye, which was made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti yesterday. The doctors, who accused the Fayemi-led administration of taking the health issues of the people of the state with frivolous levity, described a recent statement signed by the state’s Commissioner for Information and Values Orientation, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua, as uncompassionate and a deliberate attempt to confuse the innocent populace. The NAGGMDP said that the government had only exposed its attempt to strangulate grassroots healthcare, hence its refusal to take serious the two fundamental healthcare strata in the state. The body maintained that as leaders and stakeholders in the primary and secondary health projects, its members would remain proactive and would not be silent as regard the impending doom in the state’s healthcare system. It, therefore, appealed to respected sons and daughters, as well as other stakeholders in the medical sector, to advise government to address the main issues and stop digress from the truth and feeding the people of the state with lies and save the sector from total collapse. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State government has distributed protective materials for the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases to all public schools in preparation for the resumption of SS3 students in the state. The state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mr. Foluso Daramola, who distributed the materials to principals and heads of schools, reiterated government’s commitment to the general well-being of people in the state, particularly school age children and teachers. He assured that no stone would be left unturned towards ensuring the safety of the students when they subsequently resume. He also charged principals and teachers to utilise the materials distributed by the state government. The President of the All Nigerian Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools in the state and Principal of St. Louis Grammar School, Ikere-Ekiti, Mrs. Rhoda Ojo, expressed gratitude to the state government for the good gesture, and pledged on behalf of her colleagues to ensure that the materials are judiciously utilised. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .