No coronavirus disease (COVID-19) test has been done and no case has been reported in 85 councils in 20 states of the federation since the outbreak of the pandemic. This is as five states still account for 60 per cent of the cases in the country. Chairman of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19/Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, noted that Nigeria, with 46,577 confirmed cases and 945 deaths, remained the third and fourth highest in those parameters in Africa. However, 689 of the 774 councils in the country have reported a case and 50 per cent of all cases are in 20 per cent of the councils. Mustapha observed that the global number of confirmed cases surpassed 20 million and 750,000 deaths, adding that the statistics remained serious warning signals accompanied with pains and anguish to families and friends that have lost loved ones. He noted that Africa’s confirmed cases had surpassed the one million mark, fearing that the true number could be higher because “we suspect strongly that for every reported case, up to seven might have been missed.” The SGF warned that Nigeria was yet to reach the peak of the pandemic. “Therefore, the low test/case confirmation numbers coming out daily should not be misinterpreted to mean that we have overcome.” He disclosed that the PTF and the Federal Ministry of Aviation were working towards re-opening of the international routes for flights and would also be looking closely at the issue of Risk Communication and Community Engagement. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire observed that figures showed that Nigeria was approaching the symbolic 1,000 number of fatalities, “a grim reality that should be a wake up call for us.” Ehanire noted the reality of COVID-19, adding that “until there is vaccine, the only options we have to protect ourselves are still the non-pharmaceutical measures that are proven to be cheap and effective, such as the appropriate use of face masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds. If we do not adhere, there could be regrets.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .