Disturbed by pervasive insecurity in the country, a coalition of civil society organisations, under the auspices of “JusticeNow Movement”, has called on prominent Nigerian leaders, including General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd), General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd) and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to speak up against the killings in parts of the federation and demand justice for the citizens. Also, a one-time governor of Anambra State, Dr. Chukwuemeka Ezeife and erstwhile Special Adviser on Ethics and Values to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Sarah Jubril, have urged prayers to end the bloodletting. At a meeting on Saturday in Abuja, leader of the group, Vik-morrow Okon Ulo, said the seeming silence of the influential Nigerians was becoming “increasingly worrisome at a time the country is facing existential threat owing to the senseless killings of innocent citizens across the country.” He went on: “We are calling on General Yakubu Gowon, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Generals Ibrahim Babangida, Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, Atiku Abubakar, Ernest Shonekan, political and traditional rulers to leave the comfort of their zones and join the #endthekillingsnow campaign so that we can truly engage spirited comrades as well as world leaders to seriously intervene with the help of God to end the horrific killings going on in Nigeria.” According to him, the “#Justicenow movement is a viable channel that will bring the efficacy of this solidarity for mankind to the doorstep of all, as it is carefully designed to be a person-to-person and a-face-to-face awareness campaign.” Ulo further said: “We are designed to seek justice for the voiceless, defenceless, oppressed, jobless, hungry, powerless, unknown and ordinary Nigerians who are only useful during electioneering years but after which are dumped to face their respective challenges.” On his part, Ezeife, who was also at the meeting, noted that although the state of affairs in the country was difficult to redeem, a return to God, he noted, was capable of birthing a new nation that would leave every Nigerian proud and satisfied. Also decrying the security situation in the land, Jubril stated that all well-meaning Nigerians must have a reckoning with their conscience, condemn evil and seek justice for the oppressed. Contributing via a telephone conversation from his Texas, United States base, Dr. Chike Obi canvassed values’ re-orientation for a new Nigeria. He charged Nigerian leaders to prioritise quality education to avail the youths boundless opportunities for gainful employment. In a related development, the National Inter-Faith Religious Organisations for Peace (NIFROP) at the weekend said it was united in prayers behind President Muhammadu Buhari to rid the nation of criminal elements and corrupt individuals. The Christian and Islamic clerics held that the President “is the target of evil forces unhappy with his progress in the anti-graft campaign and the war against insurgency.” They communicated their stance during the grand finale of the 21-day inter-faith prayer and intercessory programme in Abuja. In his address, the body’s Deputy National Coordinator, Sheik Abdullahi Muhammad, asserted that there was a gang up to discredit the current administration. “Nigeria is a great country and it is a known fact that the forces of darkness are not happy with the great efforts of President Muhamadu Buhari towards addressing the various challenges in the country,” his statement read in part. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .