Police in Zaria have arrested and detained a journalist who was covering the protest by tanker drivers against the high-handedness of the Kaduna State Traffic and Environmental Law Enforcement Agency (KASTELEA). The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) correspondent, Mustapha Yauri, was arrested by police while taking photograph of the trailer that blocked the Samaru/Kwangila flyover during the protest against the rift between the KASTELEA and trailer drivers in Zaria. Narrating his ordeal, Yauri said that after interviewing some witnesses on the crisis, he proceeded to the main scene where the trailer blocked the road to take pictures and a policeman in mufti attempted to seize his phone but he resisted. The newshound explained that while he was trying to identify himself, the police officer immediately seized the identity card and called some of his armed colleagues to detain him at the station He added: “The three armed police officers acted swiftly, pulled me by the trousers and pushed me into their waiting truck.” Yauri said he was detained at the Sabongari Police Station for many hours before the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Abdullahi Ibrahim, called him into his office to interrogate him. The DPO later apologised to him for what happened and released him. Also, The Nation correspondent in Nasarawa State, Linus Oota, and his co-tenants, were attacked by armed robbers alongside about 3am yesterday. Mr. Oota said the heavy hit on his door by five armed men woke him from sleep. He narrated that the armed robbers , who took away his three phones, laptop, money, shoes, watch and other valuables, had attacked four other tenants in the house. Abubakar Mohammed of Liberty Television was robbed around 8pm on Sunday, August 9, around Lavista Restaurant Ombi 1, Lafia. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ramhan Nansel, said he was yet to get details on the matter. He, however, promised that the police would investigate the matter and arrest the criminals.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .