The Nigerian Government has distanced itself from the invitation of the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Umar Ghali Na’Abba, by the Department of State Services (DSS). “The Presidency distances itself from the allegations that it has anything to do with the invitation extended to Ghali Na’Abba by the Department of State Service on account of his alleged comments at President Buhari” Presidential spokesman Garba Shehu said in a series of tweets on Monday. “Preliminary feedback received by the Presidency seem to indicate that the invitation of Umar Ghali Na’Abba, was in no way connected to his utterances regarding the State of Affairs of the Country,” Shehu added. He said President Muhammadu Buhari “value of having an active opposition party having emerged through that process” and citizens can “engage in discourses that can help support our vision of a United Nigeria.” This, critics say is far from reality. Buhari’s administration has been accused of using state security forces to witch-hunt opposition and critics. Na’abba accused Buhari of turning Nigeria into a failed state, describing him as an irresponsive and incompetent leader in the history of the country. “Over the past two decades of our new democratic experience, we have had to watch our dear country, with dismay, disappointment and utter shock, as it slides into anarchy, collapse, ruin and rot. The promise that democracy held for us has become elusive. The country has been left to drift,” Na’abba said during a virtual press conference on Tuesday. He said, “hardly could any sector of the country be said to be working, as government seems ineffectual, irresponsive and incompetent. “Unemployment, particularly among our youths, has reached unprecedented levels, while unnecessary loss of human lives due to insecurity has become a recurring decimal with scores of Nigerians being killed on a daily basis. “Our indebtedness, both internal and external, has reached alarming proportions with the attendant virtual collapse of social and physical infrastructure, leading to pervasive and grinding poverty. The way and manner governance is conducted suggests a high degree of irresponsibility at all levels.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .