Nigerians on Thursday had mixed reactions to the departure of Mamman Daura, a nephew to President Muhammadu Buhari to the United Kingdom (UK) Daura’s departure to the UK comes while restrictions are still on international flights in the country since in March 2020. Only flights on essential duties are allowed in the country. Although the reasons behind Daura’s departure to the UK is unknown, there are claims that he embarked on the trip for medical reasons. A family source who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) refuted the claims, saying that the president’s nephew embarked on the trip for reasons unrelated to COVID-19 in good health. “It is impossible that a man, who is over 80, would have breathing problems on Friday and the family would wait for five days before flying him abroad in an emergency. A man having breathing problems on Friday would not attend a public funeral on Tuesday,” the family source told NAN. A number of high profile Nigerian politicians have died of complications from COVID-19 infection. Buhari’s chief of staff Abba Kyari died in April 2020, about a month after he contracted the coronavirus pandemic. Former Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi, Lagos senator Bayo Osinowo and other politicians in the country had died from the virus. Some Nigerians on Twitter, however, think otherwise about the reason for Daura’s trip to the UK. Aisha Buhari in Dubai for neck pain till today. Mamman Daura in UK for treatment. Hopefully by Sept 1, the oga pata pata of dem all also will visit UK to go and drink milk. — AyeMojubar  (@ayemojubar) August 20, 2020  God of Abba Kyari, help your servant Mamman Daura. — AyeMojubar  (@ayemojubar) August 19, 2020  President Muhammadu Buhari’s nephew, Mamman Daura, has been flown to the United Kingdom for urgent medical treatment over an undisclosed ailment, SaharaReporters reports. pic.twitter.com/dz7gUdhIb2 — Instablog9ja (@instablog9ja) August 20, 2020  Abba Kyari was so unlucky, will Mamman Daura get lucky now he’s been flown to UK? Btw, UK is Buhari’s country of choice for the almighty “medical tourism” he vowed to end! Now Nigerians wait for the GOOD NEWS. The last of the “Three Musketeers” may become another VVIP in hell.. — NEFERTITI (@firstladyship) August 20, 2020  The last of the three member cabal Mamman Daura is outside the country for urgent medical attention. I wonder what is going on in the mind of President Buhari — the Morris Monye factor (@Morris_Monye) August 20, 2020  Buhari's nephew Mamman Daura flown to UK for urgent medical treatment When Buhari was sick he was flown abroad, same as his wife Now his nephew has been flown abroad, while the masses he's leading don't even have access to good health care.His "no to medical tourism" na wash. — Zaddy Ajala (@UNCLE_AJALA) August 20, 2020  Mamman Daura in a hospital in UK.. "Thou Art Worthy, Oh Lord" pic.twitter.com/lRv4hFGybH — PROF. LATTE™ | #ENDSKGENOCIDE (@honilatte) August 19, 2020  Mamman Daura flown to the UK in a private jet for medical attention? Nigeria is funding the profligate lifestyle of the president 's distant relation and most people can't muster ordinary outrage?? Nigeria has been saved — IKECHUKWU (@iykimo) August 20, 2020  Mamman Daura flown abroad for treatment? 2020 about to get lit again. — D A N E E ➐ (@Danee_nk) August 19, 2020  Thank God. Mamman Daura safe and sound.  pic.twitter.com/GN2dXPCQCS — F A A R E E S  26th Aug. (@MFaarees_) August 20, 2020  Nigerians waiting for Mamman Daura's Life score. pic.twitter.com/bPSeGAxsOY — Naija (@Naija_PR) August 20, 2020  God of Abba kyari and mamman daura,  Let your will be done! pic.twitter.com/Srw8cdKKP5 — Peacemaker (@NafdacA) August 20, 2020   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .