Nigeria’s longest serving club curator, Mr. Ganiyu Bello, also known as Rondo, was the centre of attraction on Thursday when Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC) held a valedictory reception for some of its outgoing staff in Ibadan. At the colorful event held at the club’s secretariat in Jericho, the quartet of Mr. Bello (Rondo), Mrs. Olubunmi Aina (Iya Shooting), Mr. Morufu Oladejo (Warrior) and Mr. Ojo Oluwasanjo Thomas (Baba Ojo) were honoured for their selfless service to the team. Speaking at the occasion, Oyo State Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Asiwaju Seun Fakorese, said the appreciation of the retirees, the first of its kind, further demonstrated the Governor Seyi Makinde’s commitment to upholding excellence in service. The commissioner assured the club that the government would not stop honouring deserving personalities to encourage dedication to duty.Also speaking at the event, the Club’s General Manager, Rasheed Balogun, commended the retirees for their commitment and dedication to duty while serving the club.Balogun hinted that an elaborate programme would be organised as soon as the suspension on sporting activities in the country is lifted. “We will invite one of the top teams in the country, it could be Kano Pillars, Bendel Insurance or Enyimba and the money generated through gate taking from the friendly match would be given to you,” he told the retirees. Earlier, 3SC’s Director of Administration, Mr. Rahman Olapade, read the four retirees’ profiles, saying they deserved to rest after years of unblemished services to the club. Alhaji Rondo is one of the longest serving club curators in Nigeria, while both Warrior and Baba Ojo are among the longest serving drivers, just as Iya Shooting, a well known female backer of the club, is one of the longest serving staff of the Oluyole Warriors. Cheques, customised jerseys and other souvenirs were later presented to the retirees by the commissioner, alongside Balogun and the Special Assistant (Sports) to Governor Makinde, Mr. Oyewunmi Oluwatobi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .