The new regulations for ride-hailing operators in Lagos State are getting no love from the people whose activities they aim to regulate.
 
The regulations will come into effect on August 20; regulations the government said were necessary to reduce security risks, improve safety and curb flagrant flouting of existing traffic laws.
 
“The flagrant disobedience to road traffic rules and regulations by the drivers is unacceptable and all necessary steps must be taken to bring safety, sanity, standard and security back to the operation of the Business,” the government said in the guidelines. “There is need to introduce accreditation scheme/registration that will have all the necessary and significant data of operators, drivers and the number of registered Taxi details of which will include the route and tag numbers. This exercise will go a long way to curb the excesses of the operators and drivers in the State.”
 
An operator and a representative of the drivers, however, told The Guardian on Tuesday that the provisions need fine-tuning.
 
Ayoade Ibrahim, the president of the National Union of Professional App-Based Workers, said in an interview on Tuesday that the regulations do not take cognisance of the operational challenges the drivers face.  Although Uber, in an emailed statement, did not single out any part of the guidelines for condemnation, the ride-hailing giant said it was still studying how the new regulations will impact its operations and “network of driver-partners” in the state.
 
Emails sent to the West Africa regional manager of Bolt were not replied. 
 
“The current proposed regulations are inconsistent and unclear,” a spokesperson for Uber said on Tuesday.
 
The spokesperson for the Ministry of Transportation, Bolanle Ogunlola, was mum when asked about Uber’s comment on the guidelines.  For instance, Section 3.11 of the guideline states that vehicles to be used as “taxicab” in the state must be “brand new”. Alternatively, such vehicles “must be within the first three (3) years of its manufacture as specified by the manufacturer.”
 
The vehicles are also to be subjected to special taxicab inspection protocol and must be submitted to the Ministry of Transportation once a year for inspection.
 
The taxicabs are also to be fitted with government-approved tags – in line with Section 16 of the Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law 2018, which prohibits the use of unmarked vehicles for taxis in the states – and taximeters. Ride-hailing companies are mandated to grant the state government access to their database. Drivers who are on those ride-hailing platforms must also be literate, certified annually by Lagos State Drivers’ Institute and have Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA) Card and driver’s badge. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .