With Adekunle Kosoko, popular as Adekunle Gold, releasing his third studio album dubbed Afro-Pop Volume 1, on August 21, the 33-year-old singer has announced that it is a unique and experimental album that would usher a progressive twist to his discography. The Lagos-born singer has said that the 10-track sound-piece, which he especially connotes as African Popular Music, is a reflection of his growing versatility, which fans have witnessed since his sophomore album, About 30, in 2018. “This album is different; nobody has ever named an album a new genre before. I wanted to coin all the sounds I put together on this album. I have been looking for an avenue to express myself limitlessly. It’s African Popular Music,” the singer told RWD magazine recently. Sharing the album’s track-list on his social media pages, the songs to be included in the forthcoming album include AG Baby (Featuring Nailah Blackman – Caribbean); Sabine; Pretty Girl (Featuring Patoranking); Okay; Here For Ya; Exclusive (Featuring Olayinka Ehi); Firewood (Featuring Tekno); Something Different; Water Carry Me and My Ex. So far, the two singles releases preceding the album – Something Different and AG Baby – have continued to gather widespread acceptance from his enthusiastic fan base. The songs are also a testament to Adekunle Gold’s improved eclectic singing style. His recent release – AG Baby – features a unique blend of Jazz, Caribbean Percussion and Afrobeat rhythm. Gold also stated that his experimental sound-style is influenced by his artistic experience and personality. “With me, as my ear grows for new sounds, so does my mind; and so does my pen. I have decided to do Afro Pop because that is how I am feeling. I am feeling different sounds. I am listening to a lot of genres now and my ears are tuned a different way this time,” he tells Afrobeats Intelligence. The Arts and Design graduate also shared his confidence in selling an experimental album to a largely monotonic and restless Nigerian music audience. He said, “This is the time for Afropop. I am making Afropop, because that is where my mind is, sonically. My music is like my baby; my music is my story. With Adekunle Gold, you don’t know what to expect really,” he declared. The father-of-one broke into the limelight, following the release of Sade, his 2014 cover of the English Boy-band’s, One Direction, Story of My Life. The song went on to clinch the Best Alternative Song award at the 2015 Headies Awards. His musical breakthroughs multiplied when he signed under Olamide’s YBNL Records, where he later released his debut album, a 16 tracker titled Gold, in 2016. Gold peaked at Number 7 on the Billboards World Album Chart. At the expiration of his contract with YBNL in 2018, he left the label. He independently released his sophomore album, About 30, an album that marked the beginning of his sound re-definition. It was also the time where he got the catchphrase ‘AG Baby is your baby.’ He is currently in partnership with US-based music distributor, Empire.