 A street in Oniru. Photo: NEIGHBOURHOODREVIEW  Investors are to pilot a comprehensive new plan to transform Oniru estate in Victoria Island, Lagos, which promises an ambitious urban renewal initiative within the Lekki -Epe corridor. The project promoted by the former Lagos State Commissioner of Housing and 15th Oniru of Iru-Land, Oba of Oniru, Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal (Abisogun II), envisages the regeneration of Oniru to a futuristic estate, which will be the most sought after neighbourhood to live, work and play. Iru is the commercial nerve centre of Lagos and spans the Victoria Island, Ikoyi and Lekki suburbs of the coastal city made up of premium commercial and mixed-development urban settlements. Already, two major firms, BA law and Gbenga Olaniyan and Associates (Estatelinks) have been hired as solicitors and development consultants to ensure that all issues relating to the development and growth of Oniru and Iru Kingdom are handled professionally. Oniru Estate, comprises over 3,000 housing units; population estimation is ongoing through property enumeration project. The projection that will come out of this enumeration wis to ensure proper planning for power, water, sewage and general infrastructure maintenance for the benefit of all. Under the new initiative, consultants are reviewing the entire estate from a topographical and distribution viewpoint to reduce flooding as well as improve road network; taking stock of the power demand even as various power operators are sending in proposals. Currently, an aggressive street lighting project has commenced to improve security and create a more pleasing estate for pedestrians. The estate is looking into waste recycling for the estate and improved security and access control as well as physical planning control, towards improved and enforceable regulations. The Guardian gathered that private initiatives are expected in areas such as the power, recycling and internet, the providers will fund and charge residents. Financing infrastructure such as roads drains, security will be from the ground rent and development charges. Meanwhile, the first edition of the Oniru town hall meeting designed to engage and get first-hand feedback from residents, business entities and other stakeholders was held recently. The presentation by the Principal Partner of Estate Links, Mr. Gbenga Olaniyan unveiled plans and strategies to further develop Iru-Land along with the tripod of social, economic and physical development. Residents subsequently made an input on the ongoing efforts towards improved security of lives, property and investments in the ​‘Iru-Land project’. In his speech, Oba Lawal sought for support, partnership and involvement of stakeholders to build Oniru and Iru Kingdom into one of the most sought after neighbourhoods to live and work in Lagos. “This vision spans the environment – tackling climate change and environmentally-friendly initiatives such as recycling – health, as we would notice there is no public health facility in this neighbourhood, power and sustainable livelihoods,” he said. Oba of Oniru who announced the suspension of payment of ground rent or levies said his plan is to grow Iru into one of the most sustainable and desirable urban centres in Lagos. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .