Paris Jackson Says There Is No Label That Captures Her Sexuality Paris Jackson has said she has struggled to find a way to label her sexuality because she can’t find one “that fits”. The model and singer went ahead to explain that even though she is interested in both men and women, she would not call herself bisexual. In her words: I don’t feel like there is a label for my sexuality that fits. Labels in general, not just for sexuality but for everything, I think, are just ways for humans to make sense of the world, to be able to compartmentalize. We are getting past the need for labels. It’s beautiful. In an episode of her Facebook Watch show, Unfiltered: Paris Jackson and Gabriel Glenn, which she hosted with her now ex-boyfriend, she spoke about her fluid sexuality. She said: I wouldn’t consider myself bisexual because I’ve dated more than just men and women. It has nothing to do with what’s in your pants. It has nothing to do with what your XY chromosome makeup is, it’s literally just what are you like as a person. Thought I’d end up marrying a chick or… I’ve dated more women than men. The public doesn’t know about like most of the relationships I’ve been in. The public only knows about three long term relationships I’ve been with and they’ve been with men. The Soundflowers singer also revealed her late father “felt the energy” that she was part of the LGBT community. She said: I think he felt the energy and he would tease me the same way he’d tease my brothers, like, ‘You got yourself a girlfriend!’ if I were staring at a magazine of a woman too hard. I’m very lucky to have that, especially so young, eight or nine. Not many children have that experience. The first time I came out to a family member, they didn’t believe me. [Prince] said he just wants to learn more about it, have a better understanding of it. I’m lucky to have that as well. The 22-year-old daughter of famed singer Michael Jackson has been relatively private about her life, but in this unscripted series, Paris has removed the veil and allowed the world access to her personal life like never before.