Enugu State Police Command has arrested a dismissed soldier and nine others over various criminal activities in the state State Commissioner of Police, Mr Abdurahman Mohammed, said the suspects were arrested for murder, conspiracy, armed robbery cultism and other offences within the month of July. He said the dismissed soldier, whose name was given Ifesinachi Nwankwo (24), joined the Nigerian Army in 2017 and served in Damboa, Maiduguri. He added that the soldier went on AWOL after his base came under constant Boko Haram attacks in 2018. The commissioner further revealed that the soldier-turned-armed robber was arrested alongside one of his gang members, Raphael Nworie. He gave his age as 27 Mohammed said the duo and others at large were responsible for the murder of Ominyi Chukwu, an Assistant Superintendant of Police after they attacked Ozalla Division of the command at Agro-Allied Product Filling station along Obe/Agbani Road, Nkanu West LGA of Enugu State. They had allegedly carted away two assault rifles and injured a police inspector, Princewill Ebiriem, after the attack. They also allegedly attacked and killed the Chief Security Officer of Amodu-Awkunanaw Community, Mr Onyebuchi Aninwagu, on 19th July 2020 and were alleged to have also made away with his pump-action gun. He added that the arrests were due to intelligence and robust collaboration with other security agencies including neighbourhood watch groups and other stakeholders. He said: ‘It is expedient to say that these achievements were made possible by intelligence and robust collaboration with other security agencies, local security outfits like the neighbourhood watch groups in the state, stakeholders and the general public as well as unalloyed loyalty, dedication and diligence of officers and men of the command. He said that items recovered from the suspects include: 6 firearms including an AK 47 rifle, 15 ammunition, 36 live cartridges, 1 TV set, 1 mobile phone and 1 cutlass.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .