Ize-Iyamu • Gov’s wife receives 2,000 APC women defectors, pledges more projects
• Power belongs to Edo people, says incumbent as lawmakers impeach deputy speaker
• ‘State chief executive’s manifesto addresses post-COVID-19 economic shocks’ In an effort to end politicians’ constant threats of violence ahead of the Edo State governorship election, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, hinted that it would summon the contenders with a view to seeking a truce. The commission disclosed that it would soon convene an emergency meeting with political parties, candidates and campaign councils to that effect. Chairman of INEC, Mahmood Yakubu, dropped the hint in Nasarawa State shortly after meeting with stakeholders on preparations for the Nasarawa Central constituency bye-election scheduled for Saturday, August 8, 2020. Since the commencement of campaigns in Edo State, there had been series of attacks and comments likely to cause violence between supporters of Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Yakubu said INEC was aware of the trend and constant threats of violence ahead of the election, adding that an emergency engagement with parties involved was necessary to stem the tide. In another development, wife of Edo State Governor, Betsy Obaseki, yesterday, received no fewer than 2,000 women who defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Betsy, who was represented by the Executive Chairman of Etsako West Council Area, Inusa Imonofi, commended the women for joining the PDP and for the warm reception accorded Governor Godwin Obaseki and Philip Shaibu’s campaign team, stressing that the state government would embark on more people-oriented projects. Chairman of PDP in Estako West Council Area, Aliyu Shaka, declared that Obaseki’s coming to the party had made his job easier as the party would emerge victorious. One of the women, Pius Jennifer said, “Anywhere Obaseki and Phillip Shaibu go, we are going with them and we are proud of them, that is why we are moving with them. We are confident that they will win the election because of the good work they are doing in Edo.” Similarly, Obaseki urged Edo voters to vote for the PDP to sustain his administration’s developmental strides, noting that power belongs to the electorate. He spoke at Ward 9 in Egbedo at the commencement of his reelection campaign in Edo North Senatorial District, saying the election would be about good and bad and the future of Edo people, especially the youths. He also received defectors from the APC in Ward 9, Egbedo in Akoko Edo Council Area, who declared support for his reelection in the forthcoming poll. Besides, days after he and four other lawmakers reportedly endorsed APC candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, members of the state House of Assembly impeached the Deputy Speaker, Yekini Idiaye during plenary yesterday. Representative of Orhionmwon II Constituency, Roland Asoro, was immediately elected Deputy Speaker to replace him (Idiaye). Meanwhile, Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said the governor had reassured that he would tackle the challenges of post-COVID-19 pandemic through his renewed mandate to boost the state’s economy. Osagie, who stated this in Benin City, said the governor had designed the socio-economic policies in his Making Edo Great Again (MEGA) Manifesto to address the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .