 Scene of the accident on Lagos-Ibadan expressway yesterday  Three persons, including a toddler, died yesterday afternoon when a commercial bus conveying them somersaulted many times on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway.Seven other passengers, comprising two males and five females, were also injured in the auto crash.
 
According to a witness, a Mazda bus, marked FUF 109 ZD, somersaulted at the Youth Camp corridor of the RCCG inbound Lagos at about 2:05p.m. on the expressway following a burst tyre in motion.
 
Also, the Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the crash. He said the injured were rescued and rushed to Idera Hospital, Tollgate, Sagamu, while the deceased were taken to Fakoya, a private morgue facility in Sagamu, Ogun State.  Also yesterday, three persons were confirmed dead while others sustained injuries in an auto crash on the Iyana Dopemu Road, Lagos, at about 7:00a.m. Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA), Olumide Filade, confirmed the incident yesterday.
 
LASTMA said the mishap occurred when a utility vehicle rammed into a moving trailer on the fast lane shortly before Cement Bus Stop inward Iyana Dopemu with three casualties. Meanwhile, three teenagers, Unuayefe Wenena, Miracle Alex and Sofia Agido, have reportedly died in a midnight crash on Sunday on the Amukpe-Igbeku Road in Sapele, Delta State. The victims were aged 18, 14 and 18 years respectively.
 
It was gathered the car, a Toyota Corolla, which had the deceased persons onboard, rammed into a stationary cement truck, killing its occupants instantly.Sources said they were returning from a nightclub when they ran into the truck. The spokesperson of the Delta State Police Command confirmed the crash yesterday.
 
DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya said: “It was a Corolla that ran into a parked truck and three persons died at about 11:00p.m. on Sunday. The bodies have since been deposited at a morgue.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .