Curvy and pretty | Image: theurbanpluslady It is a bright Monday morning, and Fatima spent the entire weekend prepping for this once-in-a-lifetime interview with one of the biggest oil companies. This was the last stage of the interview and she couldn’t be more prepared in her entire life except for one important part. “What will I wear?” She finally said to herself after avoiding that thought all weekend. Almost instantly, she had a flashback of the first stage interview and the comment of the interviewers made, “you are the fattest person we have seen today.” Traumatised again by that statement, staying in bed all day seemed like a better idea. After an almost lifelong indecisive charade of finding an outfit and running behind schedule, she finally settled for a Zara dress she bought a few years ago. The dress was tight enough to accentuate her curves, but she knew something drastic might happen- the dress was two sizes down. Fatima’s long walk to the bus stop wasn’t a pleasant one. Even more worrisome was the near-impossibility of hopping on a bike causing her to sweat profusely and 30 mins behind schedule on a Monday morning from Iyana Ipaja to Chevron estate was highly detrimental. The journey to Obalende was a long one as she couldn’t stop thinking and wondering what the other girls will show up wearing yet, also pondered on why that should be her problem on her way to get her dream job. Obalende is always chaotic; bus drivers always avoiding LASTMA officials by dropping off passengers at the edge of EKO bridge in the fastest pace possible, the struggle to alight, and walking down the bridge to board a Lekki-Ajah bus. Fatima heard an uproar from the Agberos (street urchins) and as she walked past one of them, he shouted, “Aunty Orobo your cloth don tear!!!!” Preparation and planning every detail is key to avoid chaos as procrastination helps absolutely no one.
As plus-size women, we are quick to give up on dreams and aspirations due to low self-esteem and intimidation.
The fear of this leads to us sizing down when shopping for clothes, which ultimately leaves us with a pile of unflattering clothes and clutter that gives us anxiety and sadness. Plus Size Fashion Tips For A Job Interview
Finding professional interview clothes can be difficult if you’re a plus-sized man or woman. You may have to shop beyond mainstream stores for wardrobe selections — for instance, at online boutiques, thrift stores and shops that specialize in plus-size clothing. But the extra effort is worth it since ultimately you’re making a wise investment in the future of your career. Regardless of your size, choose stylish, well-fitting clothes, so you’ll look and feel your best in your interview. Always remember you are just as deserving as the next person.