• As Oyetola Tasks Board To Lift Osun Security Architecture The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has warned against abusing local security outfit, Amotekun, particularly in the forthcoming Ondo governorship election. Inaugurating its campaign council for the election yesterday in Abuja, the party expressed fears that the security outfit might be abused to favour vested political interests. Party chairman, Uche Secondus, alleged that PDP leadership was aware of plots to use the security outfit to influence the Ondo governorship election. They called on the president to ensure that the election field is made level for all to enable the good people of the state make their choice without hindrance. The PDP said it expects that in both Edo and Ondo states elections, the military should be kept out completely and the police and other security agencies be made to operate within the dictates of the law. They urged the Independent National Electoral Commission, (INEC) to stand firmly against intimidation and strive to always carry out her duties strictly as set out by the law. Oyo State governor, Seyi Makinde, was appointed as chairman of the 145-member campaign council and he hinted that the immediate assignment of the council was to ensure that the PDP family in the state was fully united. Reacting, Ondo State Information Commissioner, Donald Ojogo, queried, “Was there Amotekun when they were humiliated in 2016? PDP as a sinking party deserves to be properly educated about the reasons for Amotekun”. The Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola has inaugurated the 18-member Osun Security Network Agency, Amotekun Corps Board and the Amotekun Independent Complaints Board. The 15-member Osun Security Network and Amotekun Corps Board, according to Oyetola, will be chaired by General Ademola Aderibigbe (rtd.) whilst General Bashir Adewinbi (rtd.) will serve as the corps commander. He said the 3-member Amotekun Independent Complaints Board would be headed by Justice Moshood Adeigbe (rtd.), who according to the governor, has been chosen because of his courage and firm belief in justice for the common man. Oyetola stated that the corps would collaborate with the conventional security agencies “to stop the incidences of rape, illegal mining, possible banditry, kidnapping and other crimes which have crept into the state as a result of the deplorable security situation in the nation. He urged them to see the appointment as a call to service at a time when security of lives and property as well as the economic situation of the state is precarious and requires selflessness, patriotism and utmost dedication to lead the state to peace and prosperity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .