 Rivers United meeting Enyimba before a 2019/2020 NPFL game. Both teams will represent Nigeria in CAF competitions next season.  Rivers United’s quest to play in the CAF Champions League next season may have been dashed following the Nigeria Football Federation’s (NFF) insistence that the Port Harcourt-based club finished third and not second on the final 2019/2020 Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) table. Shortly after the 2019/2020 season was called off due to the Coronavirus outbreak, the League Management Company (LMC) ruled that the country’s representatives in the forthcoming continental club competitions would be determined by the Point Per Game (PPG) system, which would show each club’s standing in the cancelled competition. At the end of the exercise, the LMC in concert with the NFF ruled that Plateau United and Enyimba ended the season on the first and second positions respectively and therefore would represent Nigeria in the CAF Champions League. The same system placed Rivers United on the third position and awarded them the less glamorous CAF Confederation Cup alongside Kano Pillars. The decision did not go down well with Rivers United, who subsequently petitioned the federation, alleging injustice. The Port Harcourt-based club also threatened to take their case to FIFA and the Court of Arbitration for Sports (CAS). That seems to be Rivers United’s only recourse left as the NFF yesterday endorsed the final table of the NPFL for the 2019/2020 season as prepared and released by the LMC.  It also charged the “LMC to work out its calendar to ensure that very minimal number of matches are postponed for clubs taking part in continental competitions.”
 
The federation said in deciding the case brought by Rivers United, it consulted the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and world football governing body, FIFA, who affirmed the NFF position.  According to the NFF, it established that the LMC followed all the due process of consultation with the NPFL participating clubs and the NFF in coming to the decision to end the NPFL 2019/2020 Season at Match day 25.
 
It also established that the PPG table was presented by LMC for discussions by the clubs, including Rivers United, since May 2020 and there were no objections on the standings and/or the application of the head-to-head to break the tie.
 
“Indeed, it was the same table that was presented to the government in June 2020 as part of discussions to end the league or go for a Super 6, given the nationwide lockdown order announced as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .