Scene of the clash between the police and Shiites in Kaduna…at the weekend. Three members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) are feared dead in Kaduna State, following a clash with armed policemen yesterday. The Islamic group known as Shiites, who were celebrating Ashura Day, said policemen shot the three victims at Hayin Bello neighbourhood in Kaduna during the solemn Ashura session. The President, Media Forum of IMN, Ibrahim Musa, stated: “A police vehicle that brought the assailants fell into the gutter and went up in flames as they tried to disappear from the scene, thereby torching a nearby house.” According to him, members of the Islamic movement were holding the annual Ashura (mourning) commemorative sessions before the brutal attacks against the Shiites. His words: “Reports reaching us confirmed that Governor Nasir el-Rufai, fresh from the pains of being disinvited to the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) annual conference, and the support of that by IMN, has sent armed men and thugs to violently attack members of the movement who were conducting the Ashura session in Kaduna. “At Hayin Bello neighbourhood, a team of policemen attacked a gathering of members of IMN holding the annual Ashura (commemorating the brutal assassination of Imam Hussein, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad) and killed three persons instantly.” He named those killed as Abubakar Talle, Ali Rigasa and Hassan Aliyu, adding that many others were injured by gunshots. “The police also vandalised the vehicles of those who attended the mourning session. “This year’s Ashura started on Thursday, August 20, coinciding with the beginning of the new Islamic calendar 1442 in two other neighbourhoods and is scheduled to culminate on the 10th of Muharram next week,” he added. However, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mohammad Jalige, did not respond to several telephone calls to him to speak on the issue.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .