• Says zoning does not aver competence
• Makinde to head PDP campaign council The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede, has described a statement credited to the state governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, on zoning, as “arrogant and oppressive.” Jegede, who spoke through Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation (EJCO), also faulted the governor for claiming that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would rule Ondo State forever. EJCO, in a statement, yesterday, in Akure by its Head, Media Research, Mr. Samuel Fasua, said Akeredolu’s utterances were least expected of a governor. He said: “Wonders, they say, shall never end. What on earth would move a governor to be playing god and talking down on the people that a particular political party will rule them forever? “It is altogether amusing that the governor has turned himself to ‘a prophet of everlasting rule,’ for a party that has left the people of the state impoverished and allowed social infrastructure to decay in the last three and half years. “That statement was not only arrogant and oppressive, it also presented a supposed leader talking down on the people out of desperation to stave off a looming electoral defeat.” “While Jegede has been seeking the votes of the people telling them the programmes he intends to carry out in four years, our friend at the other party has been going around with rotational governorship as his sole campaign issue. “As they say, the hood does not necessarily make the monk. That a particular governorship candidate comes from a particular part of the state does not translate to competence, especially given the onerous task of proper management of the human and material resources of our dear state. “The people can no longer be fooled with irrelevant tales in the face of mass poverty and apparent display of opulence by some pseudo-aristocrats. MEANWHILE, ahead of the governorship election, the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has named the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, as Chairman of its 145-member campaign council for the election, which has all the state governors elected under the platform of the party as members. In a statement by the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday, in Abuja, Zamfara State Governor Bello Mattawale was also named the Deputy Chairman of the campaign council. The National Financial Secretary of the party, Alhaji Abdullahi Maibashira, will serve as the Assistant Secretary of the council. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .