King Wasiu Ayinde, K1 De Ultimate as he is fondly called has an EP in the works titled #FUJITHESOUND. The six-track EP was executively produced by Grammy Nominated music producer, Bankuli. It is set to be released on August 21st and the first track off the EP titled “Awade” is now available on all music platforms today. The fuji king has also posted this on his twitter page. To all my fans around the World  I will be putting out an EP project for your delight on August 21 . But On 7th of August 2020 a single off the EP titled AWADE will drop to celebrate ileya festival while the entire body of work will be out subsequently. – K1 De Ultimate pic.twitter.com/p0ndSiXeg3 — Femi Ayinde Marshal (@FemiMarshall) August 6, 2020  According to Bankuli, Fuji The Sound EP has been in the works for about ten years, and finally, in 2020, it is becoming a reality. The EP also features millennial music sensations Teni and Toby Grey.   An idea turned into reality After over 10 years #FUJITHESOUND EP project with @kingwasiuayindemarshal will be released August 21- First Single off the Ep project AWADE will be available on all digital platforms tonight 7th August Midnight #anticipate #fujimusic A post shared by  Bankulli Osha (@bankulli) on Aug 6, 2020 at 6:50am PDT  Wasiu Ayinde is a Nigerian Fuji musician. He popularized a brand of the fuji genre based on the work of the fuji creator Ayinde Barrister known as Talazo fuji that appeals to all age groups, irrespective of tribe and background. He discovered his interest in music when he was 8. His parents initially opposed but he continued to pursue his passion and by the time he was 15 he had won various local musical competitions. He later became a member of Ayinde Barrister’s band, the Supreme Fuji Commanders from 1975 to 1978 after previously serving under him as an instrument packer. He also adopted the name of Ayinde into his name after seeking the permission and blessing of his master Ayinde Barrister. He released his first album titled Iba with the special track ‘Abode Mecca’ in 1980, and thereafter, his most successful album Talazo’84 in 1984. He has won many titles and several music awards.