U.S. Charges INEC, Stakeholders On Transparency In Edo, Ondo Electoral Process 
Ahead of the forthcoming Edo governorship election, the Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) has raised alarm there are indications the process might be fraught with massive vote buying, due to the COVID-19 pandemic that has negatively impacted the economy. The group urged political parties to engage in issue-based campaigns and shun activities that may potentially incite violence among electorates.
 
A communiqué made available to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, called on parties and candidates to sign a peace treaty ahead of the polls. Urging politicians to comply with the rules and regulations governing the conduct of elections in Nigeria, CDD called for a deviation from character assassinations and an increased focus on engagement and development of the state. The centre urged security agencies to hold perpetrators of the ongoing pre-election violence accountable, as a necessary condition to encourage participation in the election. It further advised the police to prioritise intelligence gathering and commit to mop up Small arms and Light Weapons (SALWs) currently circulating in the state, and resist political influence. Similarly, the U.S. Mission on its social Facebook and Twitter handle has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission of Nigeria (INEC), political parties and all stakeholders in the electoral process to work towards a free, fair, transparent, and peaceful process in the forthcoming 2020 elections in Edo and Ondo states. The statement reinstated America’s commitment, as a partner and long-time friend of Nigeria, its willingness to follow up political developments ahead of the elections. Stressing that the U.S. does not favour any party or candidate, it said it is in the best interest of the United States to support a democratic process, where the will of Nigerians will be reflected in election results. The statement raised eyebrows on reports of deteriorating political climate in Edo State, and expressed deep concern and disappointment with the role played by some political actors in Edo State.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .