 PDP Photo: Twitter  The party described the alleged illegal and anti-people method adopted by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its administration as an unpardonable injustice to the generality of unemployed Nigerians who do not have political godfathers and are not affiliated to any political party. The PDP, in a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, on Monday, noted that said it rejects “this crafty political allocation, which is a direct exclusion of hardworking Nigerians from opportunities that should have been open to them under an open and transparent process.” It further noted that since the funding for the jobs is drawn from the national purse, the process should be completely apolitical in a manner that grants the unrestrictive opportunity to all Nigerians irrespective of political affiliation, ethnicity or creed. According to the PDP, “in each local government area, 800 slots of the 1000 jobs have already been pencilled off to political cronies while the remaining 200 openings are thrown open for the contest to the public, which also includes politically affiliated persons.” The party stressed that “such brash violation of the principle of fairness and equal opportunity by the APC and its administration, is a direct invitation to restiveness and acrimony in the country and as such, should be immediately rescinded in the national interest.” “Already, there is a growing uneasiness and restiveness among Nigerians, who would definitely be denied the opportunity to participate in this national process.” it noted. The PDP called for an apolitical process by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) that would involve the active participation of non-politically aligned community leaders in states. The PDP urged all well-meaning Nigerians to unite in rejection of political allocation of jobs while calling on all citizens that fall within the eligibility bracket to go to their local government headquarters and demand for their rights of opportunity to participate in the program. As a party, the PDP said it stands with the deprived Nigerians in demanding for equity and equitable access to opportunities for all Nigerians, without regard to any form of connections whatsoever. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .