Edwin Clark •Unity Crucial To Bayelsa’s Development, Diri Tells Reps Caucus
Ex-militant group in the Niger Delta has thrown their weight behind the leader of Pan Ñiger Delta Elders Forum (PANDEF) and the resolution of the United Niger Delta Energy Development Security Strategy (UNDEDSS), over the need to act quickly on burning issues in the region. UNDEDSS had after an online meeting with some of its executives at the creeks, demanded that the Federal Government start treating every zone of the country equally or lose its moral right to demand full acquiescence to its leadership status. While foremost Ijaw leader, Edwin Clark, had warned in a statement that the region was prepared to take their destinies into their hands no matter the consequences that will follow if the Federal government continues to toy with development in the region. Both parties warned that the region had heard enough of ‘sabre rattling’ saying the President, not the Vice President who has lost credibility in the region, must urgently reach out to constituted leadership of the region, led by Clark, to ameliorate the many anomalies that threaten the peace and stability in the region. The group, after the meeting, agreed with the resolution taken by UNDEDSS, saying that achieving lasting peace in the region must be devoid of politics and sentiments. The group under the name, 21st Century Youths of the Niger Delta and Agitators with Conscience (21st CYNDAC) in a statement signed by its coordinator, Izon Ebi, said the FG must not allow enemies of retrogression to capitalize on the so called National Assembly probe to truncate the forensic audit and the fragile peace in the region. The statement also called for the forensic audit of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and if found wanting must face the law. Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has stressed the need for Bayelsans regardless of party affiliations to put the interest of the state ahead of other considerations. Diri, who stated this when he received members of the Bayelsa Caucus of the House of Representatives in his office, said the task of moving the state forward required all hands on deck. His Acting Chief Press Secretary, Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as expressing appreciation to members of the caucus for putting party differences aside for the sake of development of the state. Chairman of the caucus, Fred Agbedi, representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency said the visit was to express their readiness to work with the governor in order to move the state forward.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .