The Premier League on Friday released the list of players with outstanding performances in the recently concluded 2019/2020 Premier League season. Premier League sides – Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester United and Manchester City had their players featured in the player of the season and best young player of the season categories. For the player of the season, Liverpool’s Trent Alexander-Arnold, Jordan Henderson and Sadio Mane, City’s Kevin De Bryne, Southampton’s Danny Ings, Burnley goalkeeper Nick Pope and Leicester City’s Jamie Vardy were nominated. Manchester United’s trio of Mason Greenwood, Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial, Aston Villa’s Jack Grealish, Wolves goalkeeper Dean Henderson and Chelsea duo – Mason Mount and Christian Pulisic all featured in the nominee’s list for the best young player of the season. Expectedly, some Premier League football fans have criticised the lists for the exclusion of Arsenal duo of Pierre-Emmerick Aubameyang who scored 22 goals in the Player of the Season category and in the second category, his teammate Bukayo Saka, who has been touted as one of the biggest revelations of the 2019/2020 Premier League season. Moments after the nominees for both categories were announced, fans expressed varying views for Aubameyang and particularly Saka’s exclusion from the list. Saka, a versatile academy graduate enjoyed a stunning breakthrough campaign at Arsenal as he notched 11 goals and four assists. He played at the team’s defence when injury hit the team and also featured in the Arsenal midfield and attack. Fans, who are in awe of the youngster’s performance for the season, believe he deserved a place in the young player of the season nominees list. https://t.co/OsULhZFbKB pic.twitter.com/slSSAFDvPP — Arsenal (@Arsenal) August 7, 2020  Jack Grealish turns 25 next month. Anthony Martial in December. Both have had great seasons but they're not young players anymore. And yes, it's a bit weird that Bukayo Saka isn't on this list. https://t.co/6eHjIITScx — James Benge (@jamesbenge) August 7, 2020  Ati Martial na Rashford young players 🥺🥺.. Media just hates Arsenal. Where is Bukayo Saka? THOSE Bruno fc are 24yrs and still considered as young! Wow. — (finn) (@claudiowangu) August 7, 2020  Say this every year but it’s ridiculous established professionals like Martial & Grealish are eligible for this. I’d create a new award for young players who’ve genuinely had a breakthrough season in the PL. Nominees would be Mount Henderson Greenwood Saka Cantwell & Ramsdale. https://t.co/9ZLOYTqwaR — . (@SibsMUFC) August 7, 2020  This is insanely disrespectful to Saka https://t.co/efyfC8TCR7 pic.twitter.com/j0xHejMLfT — Koffi (Mo Kudus stan account)  (@Yalsully) August 7, 2020  Martial and grealish are almost 25 but still nominated for epl young player of the season ahead of Saka?!!  Saka should be there alongside Taa, pulisic and the other youngsters tho — Rola (@kofoworola__a) August 7, 2020  No Aubameyang in the POTY nominees, no Saka in the YPOTY nominees, no Baologun in the PL2 POTY The agenda against Arsenal is mad — Brandon (@pepe19_AFC) August 7, 2020  Saka wasn't shortlisted cos he said he isn't gone play for England national team. https://t.co/cFYU8RFRtt — Son of Man  (@cam14uche) August 7, 2020  No Saka no Foden Young player of the year should be U21 it’s stupid having the likes of Martial and Grealish in there https://t.co/NkhiJi4NOD — SaucySenationalSaka (@AfcIgbin) August 7, 2020  Imagine leaving Saka, Tammy and the likes out of a young player award and including two 25 year olds At his age, Messi, Ronaldo, Hazard, Neymar,  were all being nominated for Balon d'Or Mbappe at 22 is a Balon d'Or award contender Nonsense https://t.co/PKexaej8JE — AKINYOSOYE Elisha Lekan (@yosoyeelisha) August 7, 2020  I refuse to believe there isn’t an agenda against Arsenal ffs, Saka not nominated for YPOTS but Greenwood is, Auba not nominated for POTS but 5 english players were, neither deserved to win but fuck me — jimmy (@nicolaspepe19i) August 7, 2020  First you missed out Saka, now you’ve missed out Aubameyang? Come on, the agenda is so so clear. —  (14 TIMES ) (@afctommm) August 7, 2020  #PLAwards what absolute rubbish. How Ings is picked over Auba I have no words. How tf Martial who turns 25 by the end of the year is included in YOUNG player of the year is a joke where as 18 year old Saka isn't? — Jack Davenport (@jackdaven99) August 7, 2020   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .