 Mimiko. Photo: WIKIPEDIA  At that time, Mimiko, famed as a political Iroko of Ondo politics, was standing stoutly behind Eyitayo Jegede (SAN), the current Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) standard bearer for the October 10, 2020 gubernatorial poll in the state.  Moving ‘Iroko’
BY the time Mimiko left PDP for the Labour Party (LP), it was his way of protesting the process that threw up Chief Segun Agagu as the party’s gubernatorial candidate for the 2007 general elections.  In the process of litigating against the outcome of governorship poll, which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) returned Agagu as winner, Mimiko sought and secured the collaboration of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN).  Return of ‘OshioBaba’
UNLIKE Mimiko in Ondo, Comrade Oshiomhole succeeded in delivering his preferred candidate, Godwin Obaseki, in 2016 and did not defect from APC. But four years after that feat, things have fallen apart for the former labour leader. He fought with his protégé, lost his exalted position as national chairman of APC, just as his former political son changed platform.  Fayose’s severe pain
IN 2016, one other state that paraded a godfather-salesman in the person of the outgoing governor, was Ekiti. The image of former governor Ayodele Fayose, sprawling on the ground with a neck collar as he cried out that should anything untoward happen to him, Nigerians should hold the APC and security agencies responsible remains etched in people’s minds.
 
Parading his 16-0 electoral result that made him vanquish the then incumbent Governor Kayode Fayemi, Fayose descended into the nomination arena of the PDP governorship primary by throwing his weight around his deputy, Prof. Olusola Eleka.
 
Although Fayose’s intrusion in the nomination process affected PDP’s cohesion on the way to the main election, the outgoing believed that the giant killer appellation he got by vanquishing the incumbent four years before would put him and his preferred candidate, Eleka, in good stead for eventual victory.
 
That was not to be because with the clash between stomach infrastructure and see and buy, Dr. Fayemi staged a dramatic comeback by trouncing Fayose, PDP and the law professor, Eleka.
 
Winning in four out of the 16 local government areas of the state, Eleka complained that the 197, 459 to 178, 121 votes Fayemi used to defeat him were procured by inducement, oppression by security agencies and manipulation of the process.  Obi’s Obaze gambit
AS governor, Mr. Peter Gregory Obi succeeded in implanting his preferred candidate, Chief William Maduburochukwu Obiano, as his successor in 2013.
   
Things went on very well initially as Obi, during an elaborate ceremony at the Government House, Amawbia, disclosed the contents of his handover notes to Obiano, adding that in addition to setting aside monies for ongoing projects, the sum of N75billion in cash and investment notes.  Though Obi laughed off Obiano’s claims that he demanded N7billion from the governor as “baseless and idiotic,” the stage for a bitter political feud was set. And in 2017, Obi, who had changed political platform from All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to PDP, threw his political clout around Mr. Oseloka Obaze, his former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), to challenge Obiano as he sought a second term. Frightened by the array of political ‘field marshals’ arrayed against him, Governor Obiano emulated Obi by forging a political understanding with Abuja to take refuge under federal might and ward off the stiff electoral challenge. As the former governor campaigned strenuously across the major markets, churches and communities in Anambra State, subdued complaints among the voters made the rounds in the state wondering why Obi, who enjoyed two terms in office should be all over the place to sell another candidate against his first offering.
   
When INEC announced the result of the governorship poll that November 31, 2017, Obiano was returned elected, beating Obaze, Obi’s candidate and PDP to the third place in an election that was said to be fraught with uneven access to security and polling materials.
 
By next year Anambra State would be going to the polls to elect Obiano’s successor and Obi has so far distanced himself from the nomination process within the PDP, even as the party has ruled out zoning in its preparatory steps. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .