 Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State (right);  Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika  and Chairman, South East Governors’ Forum Airport Rehabilitation/Palliative Works Committee,  Chris Okoye, during  the minister’s visit to Enugu…yesterday.  Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, made the promise after inspecting the destruction of the perimeter fence covering about 3km. He insisted that the government was capable of protecting its assets and would punish anyone who destroys any of them. However, Sirika  said the development  would not stop the reopening of the airport on  August 30. While taking possession of the land on Wednesday, Emejulu insisted that he purchased it  in 2008 from Nike community. But said he went to court when some government officials wanted to take it from him. According to him, an Enugu High Court ruled in his favour. The intervention by the Air Force Grand Training Commandant in Enugu State, Charles O. Obiabaka, reportedly prevented a gunfight between the  police  guarding  Emejulu while executing the judgment and Air Force personnel who stormed the place to stop him. Sirika, who condemned the level of destruction in the area, described it as “willful act”. The minister said:  “This will certainly be the end of this kind of recklessness.  We will not forgive him. All that is involved in this kind of arrangement will be directed by the Chief of Staff, the Inspector-General of Police  and the Director-General  of the DSS (Department of State  Services) to do the needful and bring him to book. “I am very sad; it is very wrong and we must seize the opportunity and deal with him summarily to serve as a deterrent to others. We are not in a  Banana Republic. We are in a federal republic governed by laws. “Certainly this is not acceptable and we are capable of rising in defence of national assets.” When asked to quantify the cost of the destruction,  Sirika said the contractor, manager of the  airport and consultants had been directed to work it out. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .