 Northeast Governors: Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa)(left); Mai Mala Buni (Yobe); Darius Ishaku (Taraba); Inuwa Yakubu (Gombe); Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and Prof. Babagana Zulum (Borno)  The recent formation of North East Governors’ Forum (NEGF) and subsequent selection of Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum as its protem chairman have continued to stir debates and discussions among stakeholders, especially in Northern Nigeria.
 
Soon after the forum held its second quarterly meeting in Maiduguri, which was designated for the NEGF administrative headquarters, opinions as to the possible effect of the move on the unity of the north, its political future and aspirations and other spheres, became rife.
 
While some opinion leaders contend that the split points to the failure of governance at both the federal and state government levels in the country, other stakeholders in the region believed that the new forum would ensure proactive policies, help in tackling insecurity and enhance peer reviews and shared experiences among the governors. On another hand, some political actors expressed the fear that the split of the once united Northern States Governors Forum (NSGF) would negatively impact on the unity and socio-economic situation of the region. A source told The Guardian that the subdivision might be a political strategy for the zone’s 2023 presidential aspiration and revolt against Simon Bako Lalong’s leadership of NSGF. The Guardian was unable to get Governor Lalong’s reaction to the establishment of NEGF as at the time of going to press, but State House source in the Plateau State said there was nothing special with the development.
 
He noted that just as it obtains in the Southern part of the country, there is also a North Central Governors’ Forum, stressing that Governor Lalong continues to provide seamless leadership to the NSGF.
SECOND Republic federal lawmaker, Dr. Junaid Mohammed, has however, described the creation of NEGF as “nothing but an unwise political move that will serve no useful purpose.”
   
Dr. Mohammed remarked that the problem of the northeast is first and foremost insecurity, followed by bad governance associated with collapsed economy, contending that what is required are honest and credible analyses of the situation and action.
 
Dismissing the subdivision of the NSGF as inconsequential, the former lawmaker stated: “In fact, if you look at economic history, the Northeast is the poorest of the so-called zones. It is also the worst governed. And this did not start today or with the Buhari administration. It has been like that for a very long time. So, I cannot see how creating the Northeast Governors’ Forum will improve the situation for them or for the people concerned.  HOWEVER, the Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Army, Mr. Abdulrazak Namdas, faulted insinuations in certain quarters that the newly formed North East Governors Forum would not be in the best interest of the entire northern region.
 
Namdas, who is also a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, contended that the sub-regional forum was required to address the multifaceted problems bedeviling the North East geopolitical zone.
   
He said: “I think it is not intended to disrupt northern unity. We have come to agree that we have six regions and so regions can come together to tackle their challenges together. When the South West decided to organise and come up with Amotekun, they did so because it was in the best interest of their region.
 
“So, there is nothing wrong in having the North East Governors Forum to also come up with similar solution. But, again, they are conscious of the fact that there is a general Northern States Governors Forum headed by Simon Lalong.”
   
Namdas explained that even in the National Assembly, “there is the North East legislators’ caucus as well as Northern Legislators’ Forum,” stressing that instead of seeing it as a division, stakeholders should note that it is easier to solve regional problems when you have such a group. MEANWHILE, a prominent resident of Maiduguri, Dr. Timothy Ihemadu, said political colouration should not be allowed to becloud the lofty aims behind the creation of the NEGF, stressing that apart from complementing the efforts of North East Development Commission (NEDC), the forum would go a long way in helping to heal the region and expedite socio-economic restoration after the devastation caused by insurgency.
 
Ihemadu recalled that prior to the Boko Haram insurrection, Maiduguri was a crucial commercial hub for a lot of economic activities, adding that it was a critical gateway to and from neighbouring countries.
 
“It was easy to pass through Maiduguri to Chad and Cameroon. In fact, business boomed; there was free movement for traders and goods. I remember the train station there; people were coming in from Chad, Sudan and Libya. Even to the Southeast and Southwest. But all that is now history,” he stated.
   
He noted that as a real native of Maiduguri, Governor Zulum must have been challenged to quicken the pace of restoration of normalcy in Maiduguri and the return of Borno State to its earlier status of epicentre of intra continental socio-economic activities.
   
While congratulating the Borno State governor for his election as the chairman of NEGF, Ihemadu said there was no doubt that he is passionate about the return of social life to Maiduguri, recalling how he guaranteed the welcome of people of other ethnic groups in the state.  Speaking to State House correspondents shortly after their meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, the NEGF chairman, Zulum had stated that challenges of the zone include addressing the root causes of insurgency, and decaying infrastructure, especially rock projects and cases of oil exploration in the region, among others.
   
In addition to Zulum, governors of the Northeast states within the NEGF are Ahmadu Fintri (Adamawa), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Arch Darius Ishaku (Taraba) and Mai Mala Buni (Yobe).
   
Three out of the states, including Adamawa, Borno and Yobe, were placed under emergency because of insurgency during the immediate past administration of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan.
   
Apart from the Northeast governors, Nigeria security chiefs, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno and the Chief of Staff, Ibrahim Gambari, were present in the meeting with President Buhari.On the issue of growing insecurity in the region, Zulum, on behalf of the governors commended the efforts of the Federal Government.  The communiqué urged the Federal Ministry of Water Resources to expedite action on recharging the Lake Chad from national water bodies, saying it is a potent way of addressing the remote cause of the Boko Haram insurgency.
   
Highlighting the potential synergy with the North East Development Commission (NEDC), the governors said they support the commission’s management, adding that they agreed to collaborate in fashioning a strategic Master Plan for sustainable development of the region.
 
The NEGF called on the Federal Government to revoke and re-award selected roads contracts awarded by the Federal Ministry of Works for years without progress, to more competent contractors to ensure timely execution.
   
They also urged the Federal Government to ensure local content in the execution of the Mambila Hydroelectric power project and other programmes of the North East Development Commission to ensure synergy with state governments. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .