Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C. Don Adinuba, has revealed how President Muhammadu Buhari directed Prince Arthur Eze to reconcile with Governor Willie Obiano rather than continue to disagree with him. In a statement issued yesterday, Adinuba said President Buhari gave the directive at the weekend when Eze visited him after the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, held a private meeting with the President where he briefed him (Buhari) on the situation in the state. Eze had gone to Abuja with 13 traditional rulers from Anambra State to meet Buhari and use the opportunity to discuss events in the state, but The Guardian learnt that the President declined to grant them audience. Quoting a source in the National Security Adviser (NSA’s) office, Adinuba said, “The President’s attitude may have been influenced by the strong opposition to the planned traditional rulers’ visit by appointees in the Buhari administration from the South East led by Ngige, who regarded the visit as an affront on Igbo people. “This is because wealthy people from other parts of the country do not assemble their monarchs to go to Abuja and insult their state governors over issues that should be treated as a family affair and handled at the state level,” the source said. Continuing, the source said President Buhari told Eze that Governor Obiano was doing well in Anambra and had been supporting the Federal Government in key projects like building of the Nnamdi Azikiwe Mausoleum in Onitsha, the Second Niger Bridge and reconstruction of failed roads across the state. “Buhari told Eze to go and reconcile with him as soon as possible. I don’t want man-made problems in that state. I consider you a friend and that is why I allowed you here. I can’t see the traditional rulers you brought, as some of them have security and personal credibility questions,” the statement added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .