 [FILES] A call has been made looking into areas of synergy that would ensure the sector gets adequate funding for its operations. Photo; BUSINESSAMLIVE  Ogah, who inaugurated the Committee, Monday in Abuja, called on members to look into areas of synergy that would ensure the sector gets adequate funding for its operations, adding that when properly funded, it would also act as an alternative to oil and gas as a source of revenue generation for the country. He also said it would unlock the potential of the sector by creating jobs and wealth, increase the revenue base, add to foreign reserves, reduce poverty levels, and provide industrialization and infrastructure for Nigerians. He therefore tasked the Committee to bring out a blueprint that would assess ways of generating and actualising funding needed for the sector’s success, if the Ministry gets the full support of the Fiscal Commission. The members of the Committee are: Aliyu A. Abdulkadir – Chairman Solid Minerals Monitoring Committee (RMAFC); Rilwan Abarshi – Chairman Public Relations and Publicity Committee; Wenah Asondu Temple – Vice Chairman Solid Minerals Monitoring Committee; Rabiu Kabiru – Acting Director, Solid Minerals; and Tanimu Aliyu – Acting Director, Fiscal Efficiency and Budget. Others include Abakun Z.I Blessing – Assistant Director, Sagir Hayatu- CRO Solid Minerals; Ojeka Patrick O – Director Artisanal and Small Scale Miners; Mrs Okani Grace – Director, Olufehinti, O.J.; Frank Odoom – Ag. Director, Mining Inspectorate, llPC MinDiver; Abduleazaq Garba – Director-General NGSA; Mrs Fatima Shinkafi – Executive Secretary, SMDF; Ms Amirah Waziri; Dauda Habila; and Ogan Deisam. Their terms of reference include: to determine the Ministry’s areas of needs requiring funding with verified costs and locations where applicable; identify sources for funding interventions to accelerate Solid Minerals development; and identify and establish the revenues being generated from the Solid Minerals value chain as revenue from the sector. They are also to recommend ways the Fiscal Commission can provide funding support for the sector development; and continuous monitoring and evaluation of the utilisation of the intervention funds.
Responding, the Chairman of the Joint Technical Committee, Aliyu A. Abdulkadir, assured of the Commission’s collaboration to ensure that the Mining sector gets the required funding for development, and promised that the Committee would work assiduously to achieve the objectives for which it was set up.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .