 Rotimi Amaechi  With China’s glaring lack of tolerance for sleaze and vague financial transactions, not a few were riled by the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi’s sensational claim that the Asian giant will not approve Nigeria’s request for loans if the National Assembly (NASS) continues its ongoing probe.
  
Despite China being one of the world’s most regulated economies, Amaechi, at an investigative hearing of the House of Representatives Committee on Treaties and Protocols, last week, asked the lawmakers to halt the probe of the $500m loan from the Chinese government to finance some rail projects across the country.
 
He alleged that some sections of the country’s rail lines “will suffer” if China stops giving out loans to Nigeria upon sensing a disagreement between the executive and the legislature.  But the Minister of Transportation has dismissed fears of Nigeria ceding its sovereignty to China under any guise, explaining that the Sovereign Guarantee clause in the loan agreement was to assure China that it can take over the asset constructed with the loan, should Nigeria default. He said: “The terms contained in the agreement is not as if we are signing off the country’s sovereignty. What we do is that we give a sovereign guarantee, which is an immunity clause. The clause is that in case the country defaults, China will come to collect the items agreed upon.”He assured that the Chinese would not take over assets that were not constructed with the money, in case of default. And should the asset depreciate; then the country can discuss other assets they can take over to recoup the loans. RECALLING how the international community had in the past accused China of applying some fraudulent, irregular and underhand pressures in the structure of their loans agreements with countries, a development expert, Dr. Chiwuike Uba, told The Guardian that: “Clauses that give the Chinese irrevocable powers to acquire and run projects funded through their loans, peradventure the country is unable to repay the loan, are fraudulently inserted in the agreements. This situation is made worse by the use of companies blacklisted by the World Bank for corruption by the Chinese government for infrastructure projects in Africa.  ACCORDING to the Executive Director, Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) Resources Centre, Olanrewaju Suraju, it was uncharitable, reckless, and indecorous for Amaechi to say that further scrutiny of $500m loan agreement could provoke the Chinese.
  
Suraju, a proponent of transparency, accountability, inclusion and responsiveness in governance, stated that in saner climes and normal considerations, loans and agreements should not be signed without an input from the National Assembly, which would scrutinise and ascertain the implications of such loan agreements on the country.
  
He insisted that with the latest revelation that Chinese loans have implication on the sovereignty of the country, both the current and future executive arms of government should not be allowed to sign any form of undertaking that would compromise the integrity, sovereignty and also the national heritage of the country under any grant and loan without the endorsement of the National Assembly.  Ozoemene said the government has been warned not to take the commercial aspect of the loan from China because such cannot be restructured in the event of an economic shock, whereas developmental loans from the IMF or World Bank can be restructured without penalty if a country is plunged into economic crisis.
    
“We have approached a debt cliff. I am saying that because I am juxtaposing what we are doing with what we did before the debt crisis of 1986. During our debt crisis of 1986, the trigger point was N19.6t and from then on, all we were doing has been servicing the debt until 2005 when we had our debt relief and cancellation,” he submitted.
   
Some stakeholders in the South East zone have asked the NASS to go ahead with the probe of Chinese loans, stressing that Amaechi’s call for its stoppage was out of place, and a pointer to imminent financial malfeasance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .