Dep Gov Raises Alarm Over Influx Of Hired Assassins, As APC Holds Rally
The Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, berated a former Lagos State governor and All Progressive Congress (APC) national leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for accusing Mr. Godwin Obaseki, the Edo State governor and PDP candidate for the September 19 governorship election of being a dictator. Briefing journalists in Benin, Chairman PDP Campaign Council for Edo Governorship election, Dan Orbih, said Tinubu’s vituperation was a clear indication that he had a hand in what is going on in Edo State House of Assembly. He said: “The crisis in the Edo State House of Assembly is being influenced by APC national leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. Let Tinubu leave Obaseki alone. Edo is not Lagos. He should let Edo people decide who governs them.” Orbih urged Tinubu to concentrate on what he described as his “epileptic 2023 presidential ambition, as his style of politics in the Southwest is not attractive to Edo people.” The APC national leader had described Obaseki’s recent actions as the gravest possible assault on constitutional democracy and rule of law and escalation of violence and tension in the state he purports to govern. In a statement issued on Friday, Tinubu stated that Obaseki, not satisfied with making a mockery of the country’s Constitution by blocking the timely inauguration of two-thirds of the elected members of the state House of Assembly, but had also resorted to the strong-arm tactics of dictatorship. Meanwhile, Deputy governor of Edo State, Comrade Philip Shaibu, yesterday, raised alarm that hired assassins were taking over Benin City, the Edo State capital, in the wake of APC governorship campaign flag-off in the state. Shaibu, who said some desperate politicians were in the state on a mission to assassinate some PDP members, called on security agencies to be on the alert. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .