Danbaba wins Nasarawa constituency by-election Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has explained why, even after talks with the All Progressives Congress (APC), he did not settle for the party. Ortom, however, stressed that after consultations with some of his close allies and the confidence reposed in him by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), he decided to decline the offer to join APC. The governor, who disclosed this during the State Elective Congress of the PDP at Aper Aku Stadium at the weekend in Makurdi, said he would communicate his decision not to leave the PDP to the APC. His words: “It is true that the APC has invited me to come back and they are propagating that. I told them I would come and ask you (PDP congress). Do you want me to defect to APC?” But the question, which got a resounding “no, no, no”, prompted the governor to say: “So, I am comfortable with my people and I will remain in PDP. I will communicate this to my friends in the APC. I will tell them that I consulted with you and you asked me not to leave.” The governor assured the congress that PDP would sustain the gains of 2019, through to 2023, adding that the successes recorded was made possible by the support of party members. Earlier, Chairman of the congress’ electoral committee, Tukur Mani, noted that the election into the Benue State Executive Committee was suspended due to the lockdown. Mani noted that the election provided the party the opportunity to galvanise and reorganise in the state, and appreciated Ortom for facilitating a peaceful exercise. The congress returned all the former members of the State Working Committee (SWC) of the party for the next four years with John Ngbede as chairman. MEANWHILE, Mr. Ismail Danbaba of APC has emerged winner in the Nasarawa Central state constituency by-election. Declaring the result, the Returning Officer, Mr. Ilyasu Umar, said the APC candidate scored 7,475 to defeat Mr. Bage Nuhu of PDP who polled 4,608. Umar added that the by-election had 12,217 total votes cast, out of which 134 were invalid. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .