Afro | Image: Pinterest Healthy, great looking hair is just as important for men as it is for women; this is because the hair often contributes to the overall look of a person. The trick to having great hair, however, is a great hair care routine, which is determined by the style, type, length and thickness of the hair. As tricky as it might sound, caring for your hair is, however, one of the easiest things to do when you know what steps to follow. With regular hair care, your hair remains at its prime no matter how old you get.
Here are 6 tips for maintaining a great hair care routine in men: Use A Gentle Shampoo
As lovely as shampooing your hair while bathing sounds, you have to be very careful with your choice of shampoo. Wrong shampoos tend to dry out the hair leading to loss of moisture, which is why you must use a natural, gentle shampoo. These shampoos with natural ingredients gently cleanse the hair and scalp while strengthening the hair and promoting thickness. Opt for natural shampoos with ingredients such as hydrolyzed wheat protein, amino acids and Vitamin E over chemical-based shampoos for the best care for your hair.
Remember also that your hair doesn’t need to be washed all day, 2-3 times a week is just fine. Use A Conditioner
As disappointing as it sounds, using shampoo alone would not get your hair looking its best, you also have to throw in a conditioner as well. Instead of washing away oil and grime from the scalp, conditioners replenish the moisture in the hair, nourishing the hair and scalp.
Using a conditioner leaves your hair moisturised and healthy-looking with an added shine. Depending on your hair type, use a conditioner 2-3 times a week after shampooing. Dry Your Hair The Right Way
A typical reaction of every man after washing or conditioning his hair is to dry it by rubbing vigorously, an action which could damage the hair. When wet, your hair is susceptible to damage, and by running wet hair with a towel, your hair could get stuck in the towel’s thread. When stuck, your hair then starts to stretch past its breaking point leading to split ends, frizziness and the eventual damage of the outer layers of the hair. Instead of rubbing, start by shaking out the excess water while patting your hair dry stroking in the direction it grows. Uti Nwachukwu’s ability to make perfect hairstyles adds to his pizzazz. | Image: Instagram Avoid Using Too Much Heat On Your Hair
When caring for your hair, you need to avoid using heat on your hair as much as possible. Using too much heat on your hair can cause your hair to begin drying out. As a tip, opt to air-dry your hair overusing a blow dryer and when you need to use a dryer, use it on reduced heat to avoid causing damage to your hair. Don’t Go Overboard With Products
When caring for your hair, as tempting as it may sound, you have to be very careful with the type and amount of products you slather on. Many styling products made often contain harsh ingredients that could dry out and damage your hair. At the same time, they could also leave a thick, crunchy final result, instead opt for natural styling products. These natural products provide high shine with a stronghold. Regularly Visit Your Barber
Another tip to maintaining great hair is keeping your hair well-groomed and neat looking. Do this by paying a visit to your barber regularly for a haircut. Make hair grooming a priority for you by visiting your barber every 4-6 weeks for a touchup.
Also, be sure to trust your barber for advice on great hairstyles for you to have you looking your best at all times. The health of your hair also reflects your lifestyle, which is why it is important that your hair is kept in top-notch health. Well maintained hair would have heads turning your way at every time. Also, remember that eating healthy and doing regular exercise would also help with your hair growth as a healthy lifestyle also equals healthy hair.