 El-Rufai. Photo: TWITTER/GOVKADUNA  Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) has identified religious and ethnic factors as the causes of violence in the southern part of Kaduna State, leading to attacks and killings in many communities. CNG, after an emergency meeting in Kaduna yesterday, set up three committees to interface with stakeholders to end the violence. The spokesman, Abdulazeez Suleiman, told journalists that in continuation of efforts to bring about lasting peace in the troubled areas, the coalition constituted three committees and charged them to come up with acceptable template for peace. The committees are Economic and Empowerment Committee chaired by Paul Wali, Political and Social Committee chaired by Bala Adamu, and Governance/Law Enforcement Committee chaired by Rev. Bitrus Dangiwa. “At the end of the follow-up meeting with relevant stakeholders from southern Kaduna, the participants unanimously resolved to set up an NGO for southern Kaduna that will promote peace, reconciliation and empowerment. “The meeting identified bad politics, economic realities and government actions as factors associated with the recurring crisis in the area,” he added. The committee is also expected to engage with the international community on the way forward.
MEANWHILE, the Nigerian Consultative Front (NCFront) has commended the massive solidarity demonstrated by Nigerians for its national leaders invited for interrogation by the Department of State Service (DSS) on Monday. A statement signed by its Head of Public Affairs Bureau, Dr. Tanko Yunusa, read in part: “Indeed the Nigerian people have been awesome and incredible in their overwhelming embrace and massive support for the emergent agenda of the front to create a new Nigeria that works for all. “NCFront is quite touched and moved to appreciate the unprecedented show of love and acceptance from Nigerians.” He, however, acknowledged that the DSS displayed high-level of professionalism towards Ghali Na’Abba and Obadiah Mailafia as senior and responsible citizens of Nigeria, describing it as good news for the country. “The leadership of NCFront, following a painstaking and sincere dissection of recent developments, especially the public outing and general acceptance of the front’s agenda and mission to redeem Nigeria, wishes to reaffirm our commitment and loyalty to the indefatigable leadership provided so far by our joint chairpersons and facilitators, Na’Abba and Prof. Pat Utomi,” he added. Yunusa pledged the unwavering commitment of the Front to stand by them until June 2021 when they are expected to hand over to a substantive structure of the emerging mega party.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .