50 Cent | Image: US Weekly/Broadimage/Shutterstock Rapper and actor 50 Cent has criticised the Emmy awards after his crime drama series Power was not nominated for the Emmys 2020 awards. Power, a crime drama television series, in which 50 Cent acted and executive-produced aired from June 7, 2014, to February 9, 2020. Despite positive reviews from critics and viewers, it has consistently been snubbed by the Emmy Awards. Taking to his Instagram page, 50 Cent posted a painting of his naked backside: “ok here it is Emmy’s, My Black ass for your consideration to kiss,” he captioned it along with a middle finger emoji. “F*** your organisation I only care about NAACP awards,” he added, referring to the National Association for the Advancement of Coloured People’s annual Image Awards.   ok here it is Emmy’s, My Black ass for your consideration to kissFuck your organization I only care about NAACP awards.  #bransoncognac #lecheminduroi A post shared by  50 Cent (@50cent) on Aug 4, 2020 at 7:44pm PDT  Power has been nominated for 11 NAACP awards throughout its run, winning five times (including twice for Outstanding Drama Series). The series has never been nominated for an Emmy. This is not the first time 50 Cent is going after the Emmys. In 2019, the rapper wrote: “The EMMY’s can kiss my black ass in slow motion,” 50 captioned a picture showing the breakdown of Power’s ratings. “F**k em I’m #1 They a bunch of Bengay my back hurt smelling ass old people anyway.” Power tells the story of James St. Patrick, a ruthless, intelligent drug dealer under the street name “Ghost”, who wishes to leave the criminal world to pursue legitimate business interests as a nightclub owner. St. Patrick aims to balance these two lives while avoiding police capture amid a crumbling marriage and shifting economic alliances. The series gained positive reviews for its pacing, atmosphere, and acting. It is one of Starz’s most highly rated shows and one of cable’s most-watched shows. Complex reported that the rapper accused the Emmys of racism last year for not acknowledging Power when asked why he thinks Power never got an Emmy nod. “I’d like to say it’s racial. That’s the easy way to get out of things. I just think [the voters] overlook it.”