Prof Bolaji Akinyemi – an international colossus – foresaw early where and what Nigeria’s foreign policy should be. He proposed the African High Command, because he understood that without a united Africa, the West, Russia and China would trample all over it, taking the minerals and wealth of the richest continent away for next to nothing.
 
(2) Prof. also promoted that Africa should have the nuclear bomb- what he called the Black bomb. Without it Africa was doomed to handouts and would be forced, like the proverbial dog, to eat and defecate with the same plate. Prof. received condign abuse for his views on the black bomb.
 
For our embassies abroad, he saw, long before Black Panther, that we should have adequate and befitting representation overseas: send billions of dollars overseas to our embassies to buy property for both offices and staff.  (5C) I was travelling with Dr. Imo Itsueli back to Nigeria. We were school mates. He was then working at Phillips Petroleum and our conversation drifted to oil pollution marginal fields and several other things. I knew and know nothing about oil. He explained to me that an oil well, after a while, may produce what the operating company did not want – e.g. too much gas, or water, or the cost of exploiting the oil was no longer profitable. Such wells are capped for future use or disposal. As he was then about to leave Phillips, he wondered whether he might not acquire such exhausted or marginal field. I had a rather hazy understanding of all this technical hogwash, but I took notes and asked him to look at them and write a memorable note for me. On return to Nigeria, I broached this with Prof. Akinyemi who took my two paragraph note to the powers that be. I forgot about it, and I am sure, so did he. I only later saw allocation for marginal fields to some people. I think while paying tribute to Prof. Akinyemi for his help, the issue of margial fields has become big business. Every oil-producing state was given and it is still receiving marginal fields. Some have developed them, others have converted them to the Gorvernor’s private company. Still others have been shelled out to prominent politicians. No operator cleans the area it operates. All contribute to greater oil pollution. Neither Prof. Akinyemi nor I foresaw this. We were naive enough to believe that the benefits would accrue to the common man. (5D) I think marginal oil fields should be reserved for indigenes of the area. What do you think?
 We are talking about marginal oil fields, no such opportunities existed for others, are there marginal tin mines or coal and manganese mines or baroid mines? l know the governments of oil producing states have been atrocious shortsighted wastrels but so were other Governors. Oil is what Nigeria depends on at the moment, but the cliche tells us it is a wasting asset. Exploiting it wastes the indigenes, the environment. Now it is a curse to the area and people. They cannot fish, farm hunt. No one can go there without weeping for the poverty of the people. The oil companies have all relocated outside the area, and also relocated the women of the area. Male youth have no jobs or prospects beyond finding and funding existence by whatever means possible or necessary. We used to advise that all Presidents, members of government and national Assembly go there for a two week retreat. That will be some condign and eye opening experience. Do not let us play with calamity. lf we do, we are doomed.
   
I am not one of those who would defend the profligacy of the Governors of the South/South who have a debt of explanation to make for the poor, irrelevant and irreverent use of resources. To whom more is given, more is expected. Nor is the query answered by saying all the Governors have little respect for money allocated to them and are equally financially reckless. The Niger Delta is full of towns and villages where there are no toilet facilities in the whole town, except outhouses built for public use on the shores. That’s exactly how it has been since 80 years ago when I was born. No running water in the town. The water you draw from the well is covered by a sheen of oil. The governors of South South have a lot to do, but they have done very little. There are two banks in all the Kalabari areas of Rivers State.
   
(6) Africa is rich beyond belief, but in a few short years, those who have plundered us will set up an architectural construct that would leave us as the gatemen and we would be unable to enter. The Zuckerbergs, Bill Gates, Google, Jeff Bezos, (Chinese) Jack Ma of the new technological development would make a thousand times more money than now and no African would be anything but cleaners, gatemen, security staff. Calcitrate is an essential component of all devises, just as copper was an essential mineral to make the industrial revolution possible and to sustain it. Imagine the amount of copper used to carry electricity everywhere. If this copper were in Europe or the US, payment for it would be by usuage.  Whenever you switch a light on, the owners of the copper would make some money. We have 7 billion people in the world. Consider since when they started using insulated copper to conduct electricity everywhere- consider further that the people of Zambia, Zimbabwe, Congo were receiving farthings, cents each time they used electricity. Who do you think would be rich today? Each time we use our smart phones, thousands of people make money – they prepared the hard or soft ware – no African makes a dime, instead all he has to show for minerals taken from his land are large holes in the ground: and then the African is a second hand person dealing with a second hand economy. His clothes are second hand sold in bend down boutiques, even the underwear of our women is second hand, our cars are second hand, our generators are second hand, everything is second hand. Our aeroplanes, oil drilling equipment, mining equipment, mechanical diggers, refuse tricks, refrigerators, cookers, air conditioners, motor spare parts, phones, lap tops, motor cycles – everything second to the second hand people. We do not have millennials, or the Z generation or generation X. We have second hand people, second hand millennials, second hand generation X. Since we copy all these social movements.
   
(7) All African Heads-of-State now take themselves – at the same time- to China, Japan, France, Russia, United Kingdom, Germany, US in a sickening display of fealty
– “we greet you great massa” . Our “second hand” hands are out :- bank loans in the West and US are 1% or no percent. In some places the banks pay to lend to business. But when we second hand people get to these same banks, they see us as old, crippled people with existing conditions – obesity, heart problems, diabetes, blood clots – to be treated as second hand people soon to expire. When we go to these same banks in the West they charge us between 8% and 12%.
   
(8) Nigeria has a space agency. I am sure they are busy and perhaps have bought some second hand satellites. If they do anything, they keep it quiet because no one knows. But during the past 50 years, men and women have gone to space. The Indians, Pakistanis, Saudi and other Arabs. I would think that a country which has 1/4 of Africa’s population should have the hope of sending one man and one woman to space, just as the Arabs, Pakistanis, Japanese, Chinese, etc have done. All it takes is to send two or three Nigerians to the space centres of friendly countries and when next a ship is going to the space station there will be a Nigerian there. Watch out. Rwanda may beat you. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .