Operatives of Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) have been charged to uphold the Public Service ethics of transparency, accountability, integrity and professionalism for proactive service delivery in the implementation of the Commission’s regulatory and enforcement mandates. Mr. John O. Asein, director-general of NCC, who gave the charge in Abuja while inaugurating the Commission’s Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) recently, stated that the Commission’s operatives must align themselves with the anti-corruption policy of this administration. According to him, the inauguration of the Unit was in compliance with the guidelines of the Independence Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to promote transparency in governance and check all forms of corruption. He charged the Unit to develop a system for also monitoring the activities of the Commission’s operatives across the country to check operational lapses. In his words: “The Commission exists to serve the interests of authors, copyright owners, users and society as a whole. As we develop zero tolerance for piracy, we insist on prompt and quality service from all operatives.” He therefore charged officers to discharge this mandate fearlessly, efficiently and creditably for the good of Nigeria. Indicating that ACTU members would be held to a much higher standard, Mr. Asein noted that its members were appointed based on their integrity which must not be compromised. He tasked members of the Unit to show loyalty to country and be truthful, dedicated and professional in the discharge of their functions. The Director-General also used the opportunity to disclose that the Commission would soon be introducing a whistle-blowing policy to complement the work of the Anti-Corruption Unit while secured channels would be provided for confidential reports. In his remarks, Dr. Idowu Ogunkuade, director of Administration, counselled members of the Unit to live above board as every one of them was being watched. ‘’Your work is not restricted to monetary issues alone but covers any act of misconduct that contravenes the Public Service Rules”, he stated. Dr. Ogunkuade noted that although the tenure of the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit was fixed, this was not sacrosanct as any act of misconduct on the part of any member would lead to appropriate sanctions in line with the protocol established by ICPC. Responding on behalf of the ACTU members, Mr. Babatunde Abdulsalami, assistant director and head of NCC Audit Unit who doubles as Chairman of ACTU, thanked the director-general for the confidence reposed in them. He pledged the Committee’s commitment to the same values of integrity and accountability in the interest of the country and the copyright system.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .