 Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire PHOTO: Twitter  Ehanire said this at the Presidential Tasks Force (PTF) on COVID-19 daily briefing on Monday in Abuja. According to him,  fatalities at present is at two per cent, especially for the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Ehanire said that PTF members were aligned in non-pharmaceutical key role interventions in controlling new infections, as the measures of wearing of masks and avoiding crowds were easy, cheap and proven to be effective. He added that “we would work with state governments to prepare necessary space and human resources at general hospitals or Primary Healthcare Centres to train and set up at least one sample collection site in every local government area in due course, with efficient sample retrieval logistics to convey samples to laboratories. “As the cause of the disease becomes clearer, the Director-General of WHO warns that COVID-19 may be with us for a long time. “This means that we should consider adjusting to what has been described as the ‘new normal,’ a way of life that is intended to reduce risk of infection, while allowing meaningful economic life to resume and citizens to restore their livelihoods,” he said. The minister said there was need to sustain the efforts as the increase in testing capacity recorded  40,000 in one month, while the number of positive cases dropped by over 2,000. “The total number of positive COVID-19 cases recorded in July was 17,457, out of a total of 154,454 samples tested, with a positivity rate of 11.3 per cent, as against that of June of 19,149 positive cases from a total of 111,052 samples tested with a positivity rate of 17.2 per cent. “By Aug. 3, we recorded 43,841 confirmed cases out of 286,091 samples tested, while 20,308 persons were treated and discharged with 888 persons dead,” he said. Ehanire also announced that plans were ongoing to designate holding rooms at general hospitals, with facilities for oxygen administration, such as oxygen concentrators or oxygen cylinders. “Some investment in this strategy, known in Lagos State as oxygen kiosks, will be required, but the benefit in lives saved will be significant,” he said. Ehanire said that the task force responded to the request of São Tomé for commodities for COVID-19 response, as directed directive by the President. He assured that there was continued increase and optimisation laboratory diagnostic capacity most recently in Zamfara, Kebbi, Yobe, Taraba, Gombe and Bayelsa states. The minister said there should be no anxiety among health workers about Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), as the equipment had been reasonably well-stocked with materials and commodities and supplied to all sections of the country. He said the government was grateful to the United Nations and European Union for the donation of another consignment of valuable supplies, which he received on July 31. “This additional delivery will boost our stockpile of wherewithal to fight the pandemic and it includes face masks and shields goggles, airways tubes, bio-hazard bags and safety boxes, test kites,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .