Alison Carey | Image: Daily Mail Alison Carey, the estranged sister of singer-songwriter Mariah Carey is suing their mother after claiming she was sexually assaulted as a child. According to the report by The Sun UK, Alison Carey, 57, accused her mom, Patricia, of forcing her to perform sex acts on strangers when she was just 10-years-old. The Sun reported that in the lawsuit filed with the New York Supreme Court, Alison alleged she also had to watch other youngsters being abused “during middle-of-the-night satanic worship meetings that included ritual sacrifices”. As a result of that experience, Alison, now 57, suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder and depression, according to court papers ­filed in New York. The Sun reported that Alison and her superstar sister have not spoken in years. Alison once worked as a prostitute and is HIV positive. She is believed to have lost all of her teeth and is now desperate to get money to have them fixed, the report added. Alison’s lawsuit, filed at the State of New York Supreme Court, says: “Defendant, who is Plaintiff’s mother, allowed and encouraged other male persons whose identities are at present unknown to engage in sexual acts as defined in New York Penal Law, specifically 130.52 (forcible touching), and 130.65 (sexual assault in the first degree), while Plaintiff was approximately 10 years of age. “Defendant also forced Plaintiff to witness adults engaged in sexual acts with both adults and children during middle-of-the-night satanic worship meetings that included ritual sacrifices. “As a result of the above Plaintiff has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and major depression, leading her to misuse both legal and illegal drugs in an attempt to suppress the horrific memories, and to undergo extensive professional counselling. “Plaintiff now demands compensatory money damages for immense psychological and physical damage, mental pain and anguish and intentional infliction of severe emotion distress.” Daily Mail reported that, in 2016, Alison Carey was found to be working as a prostitute out of a hotel in Saugerties, Ulster County, in Upstate New York when she was caught in a sting operation by police. According to the police, she was advertising herself online using her pop star sister’s lyrics. Carey was described by authorities as a ‘transient’ but had reportedly been offering her services out of the hotel for a week.