Bauchi State Government said that it has recovered over N225 million from illegal payments to dead workers, fake appointments, over-bloated pension payment among others. While addressing journalists at the Office of Head of Service, the Special Adviser on Civil Servant Affairs, Mr. Abdon Dala Gin on Wednesday, said that a committee began workforce sanitation since October 2019. Abdon said the implementation panel on BVN authentication of workers has discovered 112 State and 284 local governments employees (including LEAs and PHCs) were not cleared by the Committee due to death, overaged or due for retirement and staff that failed to appear for physical verification or abscondment According to Abdon, “The monthly value is N 20,137,095.27” He added that “39 State and 146 local government employees (including LEAs and PHCs) discovered to be genuine staff after meticulous screening and verification by the Committee; their entitlements shall paid very soon.” Abdon said that the panel also discovered 312 deceased Local Government Pensioners on the nominal and payroll. While their monthly value is N9,921,511.48. According to him, they have been permanently removed from both the nominal roll and payroll. It has also discovered nine deceased State Pensioners from the nominal and payroll. While their monthly value is N234,521.91. “They have been permanently removed from both the nominal roll and payroll. We have disengaged and removed 23 State and Local Government staff from payroll who were discovered to be illegal replacements, costing the Government N669,479.57 monthly,” he said. “11 civil servants discovered through their July–September, 2019 Bank Statements to be collecting double salaries on Government payroll. The Head of Civil Service to discipline them accordingly. Four civil servants discovered through their July – September, 2019 Bank Statements to be collecting salaries from the State and other Organizations. The Head of Civil Service to discipline them accordingly.” He said that three civil servants were discovered to have been receiving salaries from the state and the N-Power Programme in their July–September 2019 Bank Statements. Abdon said the office of the head of the civil service will discipline them accordingly.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .