 Gbenga Ismail  He said: “It is viewed that the profession as it now will not be agile in the future, if it remains the same as it is today. The report highlights what’s is needed and what needs to be done for it to remain relevant as a profession. “For us in Nigeria, it means we must be proactive.  The Nigeria Group is part and parcel of the RICS international and the future will not excuse our unpreparedness.  We must embrace constant change and this report navigates our mind to the requirements of the future and what we must begin to engage in. “This is the edge for each of our members. Furthermore we can use this to influence the imperfection in our local markets by bringing global standards to the marketplace for better efficiency and delivery of service.”
 
According to RICS Chief Executive Officer, Sean Tompkins, “for over 150 years, chartered surveyors have helped build our towns and cities, pioneered better environments, and been a force for positive social impact. “However, the skills, ways of thinking and diversity of the profession must evolve to keep up with market needs. We cannot rest on our laurels.
 
“The pace and scale of change surveyors must adapt to is immense. The whole built and natural environment sector must get to grips with the impact of technological advances, changing occupier and investor requirements, while at the same time becoming more sustainable and diverse.  In order to maintain public trust, we know that – just like the profession – our work to guide and regulate the profession must evolve too.
 
“The pace and scale of change surveyors must adapt to is immense. The whole built and natural environment sector must get to grips with the impact of technological advances, changing occupier and investor requirements, while at the same time becoming more sustainable and diverse.”
       
“RICS’ strategic response is focused on three key areas – data and technology, talent and skills, and sustainability. Our initial priority is to ensure that our foundational standards appropriately reflect advances in these areas and are fit for purpose for the years ahead.
   
“Throughout 2020, we will particularly be focusing on reviewing our ethical standards (or code of practice), educational requirements, and valuation standards (commonly known as the Red Book).” The review of valuation practice will focus on valuation for financial reporting with the aim of ensuring the services provided by RICS regulated professionals remain relevant and trusted in the context of:
•Rapidly evolving investor and occupier demand in relation to environmental sustainability
•Increasing involvement of AI in valuation assessment
Changing occupational trends (and their impact on investment worth)
•Changing public expectations over the independence of professionals, especially statutory auditors
  
“Understanding investor and occupier demand in response to these major market changes is critical and we must ensure RICS professionals have the full toolkit at their disposal for dealing with these issues,” Tompkins said.
  
“RICS is already leading the way in the built environment, with our value the planet campaign in the UK, highlighting how surveyors are using their unique position as the only professionals involved in the entire life cycle of a development, to make positive impact.’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .