Clash of old and new powers Forty days to the September 19, 2020 off-cycle gubernatorial election in Edo State, the state has already attained the status of a huge theatre, the theatre of grand political ‘war’. Although the contest appears as a straight fight between the people and politicians, the combatants are of different categories. They include the governorship candidates of the two major political parties, governing All Progressives Congress (APC)-turned opposition and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which moved from opposition to incumbency.
 
Then there are the frontline combatants, Governor Godwin Obaseki and Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, who swapped positions as candidates of PDP and APC respectively. It is however those lining up behind these two contenders as unofficial candidates that infuse the forthcoming election with the character of war.  While Oshiomhole, the 14 absentee lawmakers and political actors that were denied sundry benefits see the governorship as their last opportunity to regain relevance and clout in the state, some other notable APC chieftains who feel hurt by the fall of their ally, Oshiomhole, want to use the poll to reciprocate the former chairman’s kind gestures to them.
   
Oshiomhole feels that the build up to the September 19 poll affords a golden opportunity to apologise and remedy the ‘mistake’ he made in 2016 by supporting Governor Obaseki to succeed him. The former national chairman made a song and dance of that claim during his visit on the Oba of Benin, Ewuare 11, where he did the kneeling drama, pleading for the monarchs’ ‘pardon’.
   
On his part, Obaseki in a show of contrition during a state wide broadcast said, “I cannot be governor and not be governor,” stressing that while he acknowledges the fact that Oshiomhole was one of the human instruments God used to make him governor, his former benefactor did not want him to breathe the air of gubernatorial free will.  The Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, told journalists recently how he resisted plots by Oshiomhole to impeach Governor Obaseki. Shaibu disclosed that after begging Oshiomhole to no avail to discard any grievance against Obaseki for the singular reason that the governor was doing well for Edo people, it became clear to him (Shaibu) that the former APC national chairman had declared war against the governor.
   
“The plan was to remove Governor Obaseki at the onset and replace him with his deputy, but I refused, because betrayal was not my will nor nature. I told Oshiomhole that I will stand with Obaseki come what may,” the deputy governor stated. That was the beginning of the crisis, to divide the Assembly and render the Governor a puppet.
 
And defecting to PDP immediately after his disqualification in APC and clinching the party’s governorship ticket, the other five PDP governors in the South-South geopolitical zone, saw Obaseki’s entry as a golden opportunity to have the entire member states of BRACED Commission under the big umbrella and embraced him.  Office of godfather
Oshiomhole’s determination to oust Obaseki and continue to have a say in Edo politics is understandable. So, it is not just about an election, but an opportunity for a long list of actors to remain relevant. But the negative impact of his prominent involvement in the campaigns have caused some members of the Progressives Governors’ Forum to ask the former national chairman to reduce his dominance of the podium so that the electorate could hear from the APC governorship candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu.
   
PGF, in a statement signed by its Director General, Dr. Salihu Lukman, enjoined the former national chairman “to guard against any action that could lead to anarchy in Edo State.”  Reviving a failed ambush
Apart from validating speculations in various quarters that the initial attempt to divide the state Assembly was for mischief purposes, the Deputy Governor’s revelations proved true during last weekend’s failed plot to revive the impeachment saga. It also suggests that Oshiomhole, a good labour tactician, did not abandon his old plot. It was a clever ambush by forces loyal to Oshiomhole, because while Governor Obaseki was campaigning in Edo North Senatorial District of the state, the 14 lawmakers-elect, alongside three others headed to the Assembly complex to hold legislative session. 
 
The Guardian gathered that the 14 lawmakers had through a letter by their counsel, obtained an advisory from the office of the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Hon. Abubakar Malami SAN, advising the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to provide adequate security for the purpose of inaugurating the concerned members and subsequent sittings of the Edo State House of Assembly.
   
Sources in the Oshiomhole camp said the lawmakers did not disclose fully the particulars of the purported sitting, even as the AGF’s advisory did not vitiate the pending cases and judicial pronouncements on the Assembly crisis.  Edo Assembly: Rehashing a troubled past
EDO State House of Assembly came into national limelight for two historical developments, including the election of its first female speaker and quick turnover of floor functionaries.
 
The cycle of leadership crisis, which came to redefine the Assembly, began even before the tenure of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, but it exacerbated after he took over as governor from Prof. Oserhiemen Osunbor in 2008.
 
Member representing Uhunmwode state constituency, Mrs. Elizabeth Ativie, who became the first female Speaker of the Assembly, was elected at the impeachment of Victor Edoror in May 2016.
 
After about 84 days as Speaker, she was prevailed upon to step down to serve as the Deputy Speaker for the emergence of Justin Okonoboh. The move followed a motion of “urgent public importance, for a change in the leadership of the House” by Folly Ogedengbe.
 
In the crisis, 16 lawmakers made up of 13 APC and three Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members impeached Edoror, who served as Deputy Speaker in preceding fifth Edo House of Assembly, for alleged high handedness and financial recklessness.
 
It was in a bid to rebuild a political balance destroyed by Edoror’s removal that Mrs. Ativie was elected and Okonoboh, who was Edo Central Senatorial District, became Deputy Speaker.  Hidden agenda
FOLLOWING the crisis surrounding the inauguration of the Eighth Edo Assembly, some former lawmakers regretted the instability in that arm of government, noting that “when Oshiomhole was elected, he came hand in hand with trouble.”
   
Despite the fact that the former labour leader operated with few numbers of legislators in executing the legislative demands of his office, he was accused of using his former office as National Chairman of APC to lay some legislative ambush against his successor, Obaseki.
   
Instances of his intrusion in the legislative arm are as follows: In 2010, nine out of 24 members were induced to impeach the speaker, Hon. Zakawanu Garuba, as governor Oshiomhole warned the National Assembly against poke-nosing into the affairs of the Assembly
 
In 2013, Oshiomhole relocated the Edo State House of Assembly to the Government House under the minority leadership of Hon Uyi Igbe, which engaged a contractor to remove the roof.
   
In January 2014, Oshiomhole also secured the passage of the state budget of N123.2 billion with just nine lawmakers as well as approval for the establishment of a Private-Public University in his home village, Iyamoh-Uzarrue. N29 billion was also approved as take of grant for infrastructural development.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .