A female resident of Lagos State has lost her life in a lone accident involving a fuel truck in Mile 2 area of the city. The Lagos State Management Agency (LASEMA) Response Team is presently at Mile 2, inward the Nigerian Army Signal Barracks in recovery operation of a fully loaded Oil Tanker conveying 55,000 litres of petrol involved in a lone accident which killed a female adult. The tanker with registration number KSF 260 XY loaded to capacity with 55,000 litres of PMS (Petrol) which ran into a pothole and fell sideways due to reckless driving, trapped an unidentified female sitted between the Truck Assistant and the truck driver. The yet-to-be-identified female adult passenger was trapped inside the  tanker with her head crushed to the truck dashboard, eventually lost her life in the incident which occurred a little after midnight close to the Nigerian Army Signal Barracks. The incident which has resulted in a shutdown of major roads that link Mile 2 and it’s environs despite the swift response of the LASEMA Response Team from about halfpast midnight when  the Agency received the Distress call via it’s 767/112 Toll Free lines and activitivated Lagos State Emergency Response Plans in the yet-to-be completed recovery operation. The fallen truck loaded to capacity with 55,000 litres of petrol in the ongoing operation by LASEMA at Mile 2 though gradually spilling it’s contents, is under control as the combined efforts of the LRU and Officers of the LASG Fire Services on standby, supported by Officers of the Nigerian Army from the Signal Barracks, have the situation well covered. LASEMA has deployed it’s heavy duty equipment to the incident scene of the ongoing operation though driver of the fallen oil tanker and his assistant have reportedly fled the scene where the Agency is recovering the tanker with attempts at completing the task with the truck’s contents intact though nobody has been identified with the fallen Oil Tanker. Preliminary Report on the above incident has it that, “upon the arrival of LASEMA Response Team, LRT, at the scene of the incident, information gathered states that a tanker with registration number KSF 260 XY fully loaded with fifty five thousand litres of Petroleum Motor Spirit, PMS (Petrol), rammned into a pothole right in front of the Nigerian Army Signal Barracks in Mile Two and fell sideways, leaving it’s contents spilling all over the place. “Further investigation revealed that the driver and his assistant fled the scene immediately the accident happened. “An unidentified female adult who was sitted right beside the driver of the tanker was trapped and eventually lost her life. “The lady is still trapped inside the tanker as there is no way of extricating her body because the tanker has pressed her to the dashboard of the tanker head. “However, the team will use the Agency’s heavy duty equipment (Crane) as the only means of recovering the tanker together with it’s contents. “The team is not sure of transloading the contents because nobody has come out to claim ownership of either the tanker or it’s product. “LASEMA Response Team, LRT, LASEMA  Response Unit, LRU, LASG Fire Services and Officers  of the Nigerian Army are all responders at the scene. Operation in progress”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .