 Corper Susan in her Keke  As a Corps member, why have you decide to venture into business?
Growing up was difficult for me; my father is a famer and my mother is late. I just didn’t want to be a liability to anybody or depend on someone, especially family relatives. I currently own an online shopping business www.suzy.com.ng and I’ve been saving money I made from it and my NYSC allowance to invest. What actually motivated you to purchase Keke Napep?
If you have not witnessed poverty, you won’t know it exists; the fight is against poverty. I wasn’t born rich, but the hustling spirit in me motivated me. There’s no job in this country; besides, I don’t know my fate after my Passing Out Parade (POP). Ever since we lost our mother, everything has been on me. If I don’t double my hustle, it will be difficult for us to feed. I’m the overall first child in family of five. A new tricycle goes for about N500,000 to N800,000. How much were you able to save?  
It was very tough saving my NYSC allowance and small money coming from my place of primary assignment, but endurance and determination kept me going. I know how many times I had issues, but I refused touching it. After eight months, I was able to get over N400,000; I had a separate account for it. I was able to buy fairly used Keke NAPEP for N350,000. Now that you have the machine, what’s the state currently?
I gave it to a trusted hand, though on agreement; it’s on hire purchase. He remits N10,000 to me weekly. In fact, I hope to buy another Keke now that our monthly allowance N33,000. What was your father’s reaction to this?
My father was extremely excited. When I called him on phone, he was very happy; he cried. He has been my backbone even when my mother left us; he has never for a moment regretted sending me to school. When I broke the News to him, he was just praying for me. Are there other things you intend to do while serving?
I can’t put all my eggs in one basket, knowing what I am facing currently. I joined Recharge and Get Paid (RAGP); I earn one thousand daily from it. I’m into Longrich and I do Dropshipping too. What’s your advise to young people?
I feel bad when I hear my fellow corps members say NYSC is scam; NYSC is not scam! I’m not a motivational speaker, but I want to tell every young person out there that, ‘if you are determined, nothing can stop you.’ The only way to survive during hard times is to face it with no fear. Hardwork is very exhausting, but it doesn’t matter days or nights you will spend doing your work. The rate of unemployment now is at its peak; we should plan ahead. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .