Lady Gaga | Mirror Multiple award-winning songstress and actress Lady Gaga has urged her fans to self-isolate to protect themselves from the coronavirus outbreak. In an Instagram post, Lady Gaga revealed she has decided to stay safe from the virus by staying indoors. She added that she would also be staying away from her grandparents. According to her, she chose to stay away from them because she does not want to infect them in case she has the virus. Speaking to her followers, she began: “So I talked to some doctors and scientists. “It’s not the easiest for everyone right now but the kindest/healthiest thing we can do is self-quarantine and not hang out with people over 65 and in large groups. “I wish I could see my parents and grandmas right now but it’s much safer to not so I don’t get them sick in case I have it. She then added: “I love you world, we’ll all get through this. Trust me, I talked to God – she said we’re gonna be ok.” Read More Insect With Strange Sex Organs And Horns Named After Lady Gaga Fans were faced with a warning message relating to the outbreak of coronavirus when buying tickets for her 2020 The Chromatica Ball tour dates. Lady Gaga’s London show will be held at the Tottenham Hotspur stadium in July. However, when fans went to buy tickets, they were confronted with a coronavirus message. Ticketmaster warned fans that their tickets will not be covered if they choose not to go to the gig due to fears of ‘contracting coronavirus’. Underneath a section that relates to concert-goers purchasing insurance for their tickets, a new coronavirus section has been added. Lady Gaga, Taylor Swift and Miley Cyrus | NME The 33-year-old is not the only celebrity urging fans to self-isolate. Singers Miley Cyrus, Taylor Swift and Ariana Grande have also called on their fans to stay safe. “Guys, I follow you online and I love you guys so much and I need to express my concern that things aren’t being taken seriously enough right now,’ Taylor said on her Instagram stories. ‘I’m seeing lots of get togethers and hangs and parties still happening. This is the time to cancel plans. Don’t assume that because you don’t feel sick that you aren’t possibly passing something on to someone elderly or vulnerable…we need to make social sacrifices right now.” Read More: Taylor Swift Banned From Performing Her Old Songs Taylor Swift Breaks Michael Jackson’s American Music Awards Record Sharing a clip of Hannah Montana on Twitter, Miley Cyrus also urged fans to be “compassionate”. “Be thoughtful. Respectful. Compassionate. HUMAN. while preparing for social distancing…. NO ONE needs every soup in the store, The more we hoard the more expensive and sparse necessities will become, leaving many without essentials. This is a great time to practice restraint…” she wrote. Read More: Miley Cyrus Reveals Why She Split From Liam Hemsworth Liam Hemsworth Files For Divorce From Miley Cyrus Ariana Grande posted a lengthy series of tweets admonishing people who say the pandemic ‘isn’t a big deal’. She ended with the tweet ‘like your hip hop yoga class can fucking wait I promise’. “It is incredibly dangerous and selfish to take this situation that lightly,” she wrote. ‘The “we will be fine because we’re young” mindset is putting people who aren’t young and/or healthy in a lot of danger. You sound stupid and privileged.” James Bond actress Olga Kurylenko also announced today that she has tested positive for the virus.