Muhammadu Sanusi II PHOTO: FACEBOOK/NASIR EL-RUFAI Less than 24 hours after he appointed him into the board of Kaduna State Investment Promotion Authority, Governor Nasir El-Rufai has named former Emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II as the chancellor of Kaduna State University. “On behalf of the government and people of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai is delighted to appoint His Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II as the Chancellor of the Kaduna State University,” Elrufai’s spokesman Muyiwa Adekeye said in a statement. “In public life, His Highness has demonstrated a strong commitment to education.” “The Kaduna State Government has no doubt that as Chancellor, His Highness Muhammadu Sanusi, would provide symbolic and substantive leadership in raising the profile of KASU as an emerging centre of learning on the national and global level.” Kano State Government on Monday removed Sanusi as emir of the Kano emirate after six years on the throne. Secretary to the state government Usman Alhaji said the former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor was removed for his “total disrespect to lawful instructions from the office of the governor and other lawful authorities.” Kano State Government announced Aminu Ado Bayero as the new emir of Kano emirate. While the news of Sanusi’s removal was greeted with mixed reactions from Nigerians, El-Rufai showed faith in the former CBN governor by appointing into the board of the Kaduna State Investment Promotion Authority less than 24 hours after his dethronement. “Sanusi’s appointment comes at an exciting moment for KASU which is transiting to a multicampus structure with presence across the state,” El-Rufai said. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai welcomes with gratitude the consent of His Highness Muhammadu Sanusi to serve as Chancellor of KASU and as Vice-Chairman of the board of KADIPA. “The Kaduna State Government is grateful that HH Muhammadu Sanusi II continues to support and assist the realisation of the governance objectives of the Kaduna State Government.” Sanusi will succeed the pioneer chancellor of KASU, His Highness, Malam Tagwai Sambo, the Chief of Moro’a, who was appointed to the role in 2005.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .