Vogue Magazine Rihanna has shared her plans to expand her family within the next 10 years with or without a partner in a new interview as reported by The Daily Mail. The chart-topping musician and businesswoman, 32, made history by becoming the first person to grace the cover of British Vogue in a durag for a high-fashion shoot captured by critically-acclaimed photographer Steven Klein. The singer revealed she’s open to raising ‘three or four children’ alone if she hasn’t found The One, telling the publication in its May issue: ‘Would I do it on my own? Hell yeah!’ She further explained that being in a relationship will not hold her back from her plans on becoming a mother. In her words: Hell yeah, I feel like society makes me want to feel like ‘Oh you got it wrong …’ They diminish you as a mother, [if] there’s not a dad in your kid’s lives. But the only thing that matters is happiness, that’s the only healthy relationship between a parent and a child. That’s the only thing that can raise a child truly, is love. Speaking on her music, the singer said she is working aggressively on new music but has no strict deadline. I can’t say when I’m going to drop … but I am very aggressively working on music. I don’t want all my albums to feel like themes. There are no rules, there’s no format, there’s nothing. There’s just good music and if I feel it, I’m putting it out. Also, she plans to explore the reggae genre. That is happening. I feel like I have no boundaries. I’ve done everything. I’ve done all the hits, I’ve tried every genre – now I’m just, I’m wide open. I can make anything that I want.’ The media personality revealed she is she’s still coming to grips with life as a superstar and at times, still struggles with the spotlight. She said her nerves were once so intense that she cancelled her performance at the 2016 Grammy Awards, which a representative originally claimed was only due to bronchitis. On the success of her cosmetic brand, the TV and film star said she considered her aim to reach a diverse audience ‘normal’. According to her: I’m shocked by people saying, ”Oh my god, what made you think of making make-up for black girls?” I’m like, What? You thought this was like a marketing strategy? Like I’m a genius? It’s shocking most of the time, then it turns into disappointment that this is groundbreaking right now. In my mind, this was just normal. In 2017, the business-savvy star entered the world of make-up and launched her Fenty Beauty line, with her products selling out across the globe.