Follow the threat posed by the rapid spread of the deadly coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent stay-at-home order slammed on citizens by state governors, some senior lawyers have declared such restriction of movement without any legal backing as unconstitutional.
   
The lawyers are of the view that the State of Emergency ought to have been activated according to law because such actions violate section 41 of the 1999 constitution, which guarantees freedom of movement.
   
Retired professor of law, University of Lagos, Akin Oyebode, described it as an overreaction. He said: “There seems to be outright overreaction occasioned by the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The attempt to establish barriers to constitutionally guaranteed freedom of movement of citizens is gregariously untoward and utterly ridiculous. It is a thinly-veiled effort to transform Nigeria into a confederation and is condemnable in its entirety. The Nigerian Governors’ Forum should rein its ignorant members by upholding the sanctity of the country’s constitution.”  Agbakoba said: “Our lawmakers must, as a matter of urgency, pass a Coronavirus Act 2020 to deal with the multiple challenges Nigerians face. The law will deal with safety first and foremost, welfare second and generally to promote peace and orderliness to confront this monstrosity. 
   
“The UK passed the Coronavirus Act of 2020 in just two days. On the part of our government, I call on the president and governors to invoke the provisions of the Quarantine Act to order a complete lockdown of the country for at least 14 days, as only the toughest possible measures will ensure we are safe.  Human rights lawyer, Mr. Inibehe Effiong, said the ban by Lagos and other States are illegal. Without appropriate laws and regulations enabling them, he said no governor in Nigeria could alter, restrict or encroach on the fundamental rights of citizens to religion, peaceful assembly and movement.
   
His words: “These rights are not enjoyable at the pleasure of the government. That is why they are fundamental rights. What the governors are doing is blatantly illegal and unconstitutional.  According to him, such right can be derogated from under Section 45 of the same Constitution in the interest of defence, public safety, order, morality or public health or for the purpose of protecting the rights and freedom of other persons. 
   
“The implication of the combined reading of Sections 41 and 45 of the Constitution is that the Governors can legitimately issue a declaration regulating the movement of people in the interest of public safety, order and public health aimed at preventing the spread of Covid-19. The above submission is strengthened by Section 8 of the Quarantine Act, which gives the Governors the power to issue such declaration and make any safety regulation to prevent the spread and transmission of infectious disease, where the President fails to make the relevant declaration and issue regulations under Sections 2 & 3 of the Quarantine Act. The President, in the circumstance, having failed to exercise his powers under the Quarantine Act, the Governors are, by operation of law, empowered to do so.
   
“In effect, the governors by closing entry points into their respective states for the sole purpose of preventing the spread and transmission of infectious disease (COVID 19) have not infringed on any citizen’s right as it is justified in the circumstance,” he declared.  We all need to be responsible for our own interest at this time. Are you not watching what’s going on in other climes? Do we realise the danger we are all in at this time?” He asked.
   
He argued that public health supersedes the individual right of movement and the constitution provides for the kind of situation we are presently in. 
   
“We are not in any academic situation. This is about real life and death. Personally, I am disappointed that a lot of our people don’t seem to realise how serious this scourge is,” he lamented. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .