A bill seeking the establishment of the North-West Development Commission yesterday scaled second reading on the floor of the Senate. The sponsor, Senator Barau Jibrin  (APC: Kano), submitted that the rivalry among the six geo-political zones to individually develop themselves through commissions was a healthy competition that would engender rapid growth of the regions. In his lead debate, the lawmaker said the establishment of the North-West Development Commission would act as a catalyst to effectively harness the potentials of the area as well as address its infrastructure gap. According to him, “the region has contributed immensely to the overall development of Nigeria in terms of agriculture and other areas of endeavours yet it remains hugely underdeveloped.” He noted that what the region currently needs from the Federal Government was support to develop its infrastructure and educate its teeming youths to drive the process of developing the zone in its entirety to be at par with the more developed ones nationwide. Jibrin lamented that the zone, which had the highest population in the country, was peopled with 70 per cent youths that are yet to be well engaged. His words: “The sad fact is that majority of these youths are uneducated in a region that has the highest out-of-school children in the country. “The establishment of this commission shall help to address this problem by educating these youths so as to develop the needed human capital to drive the development needs of the region in particular and Nigeria in general. “The enactment of this bill will help to rebuild the North West zone and provide opportunity for the people of the zone to display their talents and contribute immensely to the development of the country. In their contributions, Senators Kaita Babba Ahmad (Katsina North); Francis Fadahunsi (Osun East); Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun Central); Kabiru Gaya (Kano South) and Ibrahim Gobir (Sokoto East) spoke in favour of the piece of legislation. They pointed out that the establishment of development commissions in the six geo-political zones would make for even and rapid development of the most populous black nation. When it was eventually put to voice-vote, the proposed law scaled seconding reading. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .