Barring last-minute changes, members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) would meet in a fortnight to proffer solutions to the myriad of problems bedevilling the party. The issue revolving around the suspension of the party’s embattled National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and other party chieftains, is expected to be deliberated upon at the parley to be led by President Muhammadu Buhari. Party leaders, including Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Governor Atiku Bagudu-led progressive governors forum (PGF) will be at the meeting, billed for March 17 at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. The party’s Deputy National Secretary, Chief (Hon.) Victor T. Giadom confirmed that the meeting would hold. Also, the Director-General of PGF, Mr. Salihu Moh. Lukman, who confirmed the meeting in a statement, insisted that aside from the issue of appointing an Acting National Chairman for the party, the matter revolving around the suspension of members of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) needed to be addressed. Alleging that the Oshiomhole-led NWC breached the party’s Constitution, by suspending the Deputy National Chairman (North), Senator Lawali Shuaibu and Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir, National Vice Chairman (North West), the forum expressed surprise that Oshiomhole is a crying wolf where there is none. The forum enjoined the NEC to nullify the suspension of former Governors Rochas Okorocha, Ibikunle Amosun and incumbent Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu on the basis that it was done by the Oshiomhole-led NWC in breach of the party’s Constitution. The forum maintained that under no circumstance should NEC allow double standards in the application of disciplinary proceedings against Oshiomhole. The forum argued: “This brings us to the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole by his ward. In every respect, Comrade Oshiomhole’s case is similar to that of Alh. Abdulkadir. Since November 2, 2019, the executives of Ward 10, Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State announced the suspension of Comrade Oshiomhole, interestingly for alleged anti-party activities similar to the charges against Alh. Abdulkadir. “The decision was transmitted to the NWC, and instead of applying the provision of Article 21(B)(ii) of the APC Constitution to set up a fact-finding committee, or even endorse the suspension, given the precedence they have set in the case of Alh. Abdulkadir, the NWC rejected the ward executives’ decision to suspend Comrade Oshiomhole… What makes the case of Comrade Oshiomhole different?…” But a section of the NWC in support of Oshiomhole has distanced itself from the meeting. Three key NWC members -Messrs Babatunde Ogala, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu, and Waziri Bulama, who hold the positions of the National Legal Adviser, National Publicity Secretary and National Secretary of the party, enjoined party chieftains to ignore the invitation to the NEC credited to Giadom. The group, in a statement jointly signed by the trio, noted: “The National Working Committee, therefore, disassociates itself from the said illegal and unauthorised Notice of Meeting of the National Executive Committee… “The NWC shall continue to protect our Constitution and convene its meetings and the National Executive Committee Meetings in accordance with the provisions of the Party Constitution.” The group argued that the planned NEC meeting contravenes Article 25 (B) (i) and (ii) of the APC Constitution: “The National Executive Committee shall meet every quarter and or at any time decided by the National Chairman or at the request made in writing by at least two-thirds of the members of the National Executive Committee, provided that not less that fourteen (14) days notice is given for the meeting to be summoned…”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .