 Hadji Kwame (left); Programme Manager, Freedom Foundation, Mr. Oluwakorede; Baale Festus Arowojolu and wife; Trustee, Sparkle Foundation, Mrs. Olabisi Omole,Tajudeen Tijani; Programme Manager, PBO Foundation, Mrs. Aderonke Oyelakin, Founder of This Present Day African Youth Initiative,  Mr Chuks David; Programme Manager, Sparkle Foundation, Ebeleme Jeremiah and others at the event  The Trustee, Sparkle Foundation, Mrs. Olabisi Omole, said: “It is important we come together to discuss, listen, share and exchange ideas. There is a need to create a common understanding and work towards the growth of our community. We need to discourage child labour and enlighten the youths on dangers of drug and substance abuse…” With the theme: Education: A Fundamental Tool To Driving Economic Prosperity In A Developing Nation, she spoke on misconceptions around education in the community and the rise in child labour, drug abuse  and other vices, which have prevented children from harnessing God-given talents and potentials. Those present at the event included Education Secretary,  Lagos Mainland Education Authority, Tajudeen Tijani; Baale of Ottumara, Ilaje community, Baale Festus Arowojolu; Aderonke Oyelakin of Pastor Bimbo Odukoya Foundation; Mr. Oluwakorede of Freedom Foundation; Founder, This Present Day African Youth Initiative, Mr. Chuks David; market women, parents and community leaders. Oyelakin spoke on dangers of kids not being in school, as out-of- school children have increased, and how to improve the lives of orphans and vulnerable children (OVC). She also revealed the foundation had supported 3,3oo children with educational materials and was willing to do more, adding that the foundation would also embark on a scholarship programme for out-of-school children in the community in September, this year. Members of the community appreciated the foundation and promised to support it any capacity to ensure that their plan for the community is a success. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .