 NASFAT Chief Missioners, Sheikh Morufu Abdulazeez Onike (left); President, Alhaji Mumuni Niyi Yusuf; Chairman, 25th anniversary Committee, Alhaji Toofeek Aderemi Adeseun and NASFAT Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Suwebat Bola Kupolati at the 25th anniversary celebration press conference in Lagos.  The group charged the Federal Government to create an enabling working environment for women in the country, noting that this would encourage women to focus on nurturing their children. As part of the group 25th anniversary, NASFAT joins other women across the globe to celebrate international women’s day. Speaking during the public lecture to commemorate the Day, NASFAT Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Suwebat Kupolati, said working class nursing mothers should be given six months or one year leave to nurture their children while receiving their monthly stipends, likewise girl child should be giving opportunity to go to school. According to her, NASFAT as an international organisation always aligns herself with international norms, values, standard and traditions and in conformity with her tradition has lined up various activities to mark the day, which coincidentally falls within the period of 25th anniversary celebration of the society. Top on the activities to mark the day includes project 25-25-25, meaning empowerment of 25 women in 25 trades in 25 locations of NASFAT. Former NASFAT National Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Samiat Omolara Mumuni, urged women to use their diverse role in the society to ensure stability, progress and development of the nation. “Women have a lot of roles to play, we have to ensure that we have a peaceful society and peaceful home,” she said.She advised women to maintain integrity and shun the use of women to promote products or use as sex object. “Women have a lot to offer the society than being use as a sex object or for advertising. We want women to be used judiciously, judge them on the quality of what they offer rather than promoting gender inequalities”.Alhaja Sadiat Onike Abdul Azeez, urged women to shun inferiority complex and use their God-gifted talent to help others in the society. “So many women in the society have the issue of inferiority complex. Many of them have potentials but lack the ability to come out to use this potential for developing the society,” she said. The Chief Missioner of NASFAT, Imam Abdul-Azeez Onike, while delivering lecture on ‘on the role of women’ said men and women are equal in the sight of Allah and are expected to perform all acts of worship and faith. “There is no gender superiority in Islam but each sex playing the roles based on the physiological and psychological make-up,” he said. According to Onike, NASFAT having realised that most of the misconceptions held about women are due to deliberate distortion or manipulation of textual provisions and that even most of the concept degrading womanhood are not scripture based, the society has been collaborating with many local and international non-governmental organisation such as the Carter Center Inc. to champion the cause of better living intellectually and financially for women in and outside NASFAT. The group also organises regularly in collaboration with Islamic Education Trust/Da’wah Institute of Nigeria what it calls “Train-the-trainers’ course in Islam, Da’wah and Dialogue where topics like the followings are exhaustively taught to members: “ Can women talk in public? Which is resounding yes, women can talk in public but not in seductive manner. “Islamic history is replete with women who spoke in public during the time of the Prophet and Caliphs: Khawlat bint Thalaba, Hind wife of Abu Sufyan at one point or another complained about their husbands to the Prophet,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .