 Femi Gbajabiamila  Possibly motivated by the travails of the immediate past president of the senate, Bukola Saraki, who endured an extremely unpleasant court trial for the substantial part of his four year reign over alleged breach of code of conduct and forgery of Senate rules and or the quest to enjoy similar privileges as the head of the executive arm of government, Nigerian lawmakers are now pushing to insert immunity in the constitution for its principal officers. The bill is titled ‘Bill for an Act to Alter Section 308 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Extend Immunity to Cover Presiding Officers of Legislative Institutions.’ Penultimate Tuesday, the House of Representatives passed the bill for a second reading. The bill sponsored by Olusegun Odebunmi, lawmaker representing Ogo-Oluwa/Surulere Federal Constituency of Oyo State seeks to alter Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution, which precludes the president and vice president as well as governors and their deputies from both civil and criminal trial while in office. They now want the section to extend the immunity to cover presiding officers of legislative institutions.  Subsection (2) says: “The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall not apply to civil proceedings against a person to whom this section applies in his official capacity or to civil or criminal proceedings in which such a person is only a nominal party. (3) This section applies to a person holding the office of President or Vice-President, Governor or Deputy Governor; and the reference in this section to “period of office” is a reference to the period during which the person holding such office is required to perform the functions of the office.” Subsection 3 of the section spells out specifically the persons to whom the privilege of immunity from prosecution applies as the president, the vice president, governors and deputy governors.
  
Consequently, the alteration is intending to extend immunity to four presiding officers of the National Assembly and those of the state Houses of Assembly, two in each of the 36 states of the federation. Leading the debate on the bill, the sponsor, Odebunmi, said the proposal was to protect the legislative arm of government. He said: “Extending immunity to the presiding officers of the national and state assemblies is not a means of shielding them from answering any question generated by their actions, or preventing members of the House from exercising their powers of choosing or changing their leaders, when required as provided for by the laws, but a genuine way of protecting the most sacred institution in a democracy.”  The law grants the Legislative Houses in the National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly immunity from litigation for actions taken in plenary or committee proceedings of the House or committee. The law also strengthens the power of the Legislators to carry out their Law making functions. These include power to summon any person to appear before her, give evidence, as well as power of an officer of the legislative House to arrest any person who commits an offense against the Act. With the new development, it seems the lawmakers are not yet satisfied with the existing law. They want their principal officers to enjoy exactly the same kind of protection their counterparts in the executive arm of government enjoy. But if altruism and the need to ensure fairness and equity for leaders of the different arms of government motivated this protection-seeking venture, where does this leave the heads of the judiciary in the country? Lawyers react to the proposal
Judicial reforms advocate Mr. Yemi Candide-Johnson (SAN) describes the bill as cynical and self-serving. According to him, the bill has nothing to do with the functioning of the parliament rather than arrogance, vanity and misperception of their function. He maintained that for the actual work of a parliament, immunities are already in existence for words spoken and actions taken in that function.
  
His words: “What is being proposed is immunity from civil and criminal process and therefore the impunity from legal responsibility. It is amazing and scandalous; and shows not only bad intent but a lack of responsibility. There are numerous urgent issues, which should grab the attention of our under-worked and over-dressed parliamentarians such as security, education and economic transformation as well as the 4th industrial revolution. They should serve the people and not aggravate them.”
  
Also responding to the issue, Professor of international law and jurisprudence, Akin Oyebode said the legislators are definitely misconceived, self-seeking and self-motivated. “Universally, immunity avails lawmakers in relation to their deliberations and other activities within the legislative chambers. In a society suffused with poverty, ignorance and squalor, it is really regrettable that our lawmakers would deem it fit and proper to be chasing shadows and waging quixotic battles,” he exclaimed.
  
Dr. (Chief) Fassy A. Yusuf, a lawyer and lecturer, University of Lagos, toeing the same line of argument said it is a misplaced venture lacking in patriotism, good conscience and sincerity. According to him, it is unfathomable that the National Assembly has little to do at this critical period when the nation is on fire. “Are they in competition with the Executive? This is sad and a disservice to the good people of this country. The venture is even coming at a time Nigerians are clamouring for the removal of the immunity clause for President, Vice President, Governors and Deputy Governors to promote good governance and remove licentiousness. The national assembly should not add insult to the injury we are nursing,” he warned, adding that the proposed immunity clause would make the beneficiaries to be more brazen. “And, what will happen to the leadership of the judiciary?” He asked. Yusuf stressed that the act amounts of legislative rascality.
  
For Logos lawyer, Nwachukwu Odoemela this immunity of a thing, which the 9th Assembly has had a renewed urge and vigour to arrogate to itself by seeking to pass it into law for its principal officers goes beyond their primary role of law making. He noted that it is tainted with suspense. “One will recall that the 8th Assembly, which was marred with executive face-off at the end dropped the idea whereas these lawmakers pushing for immunity could have kow-towed the same line and move on the line of honour as this will definitely mock the nascent democracy, which the legislature is its custodian.
  
“By allowing the presidents and the vice presidents, governors and their deputies immunity is a deliberate cloak on these class of people from multiplicity of litigation, which will distract them from state duties not with reference to the principal officers of the National Assembly members,” he pointed out.  According to him, constitutional law experts are of the view that the idea of constitutional immunity from prosecution, whether executive or legislative, should not cover any act outside the realm of legitimate or lawful activities or only to the extent of the purposes of their prescribed constitutional role.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .