Mike Bamiloye | Daily Post Nigeria Evangelist and founder of Mount Zion Drama Ministry, Mike Bamiloye, has said that he and members of his drama ministry are not Nollywood artistes. In an Instagram post titled “We Are Drama Ministers Not Nollywood Artistes”, he stated that “there is no value the Nollywood artistes are coming to add to the gospel movie productions.”   According to him, “people are getting happier with the result of gospel movie productions” as their souls and lives are getting touched with influence going far beyond the shores of Nigeria. Furthermore, he stated gospel films “heal and deliver from the powers of darkness,” while Nollywood films in comparison, “entertains and entangles with webs of human philosophies and ungodly principles.” He buttresses the aforementioned when he adds: “Gospel movies set men free from the bondage of the Devil, by the power of the Holy Ghost. But Nollywood movies bound men in bondages of sins, immorality and violence. Therefore, there is no value the Nollywood artistes can add to the gospel movie productions.” The clergyman further goes on to say that the presence of Nollywood artistes in gospel movies cannot increase the anointing of God upon the production. Rather, their presence in gospel films “would confuse the viewers and audience.” Bamiloye admits that while they may use the crew from Nollywood, they “cannot use their persons” because “anyone may construct the altar of worship but not anyone could minister thereon.” His post goes on to clarify that while there are Christians among Nollywood practitioners with some workers in the church, Jesus knows them “as people who make movies to lure away from God.” The post reads further: “They have been known and tagged as Nollywood artistes who make a particular type of movies they are searching Godly alternatives for.” Bamiloye opines that whoever hates secular artistes “is not a child of God” and states that there are “a lot of wonderful men and women amidst them who are just doing their professions and careers.” The two-part post continues that while Nollywood artiste “may do faith-based movies because it contains the traces of the gospel,” they (drama ministers) do evangelical gospel films “that fully contain the revelation of the mind of God with the manifestation of the power of the Spirit of the Lord.” According to Bamiloye, faith-based films are “an attempt to stand in between, without the boldness to declare on which faith” the movie is based. Bamiloye concludes by saying that the drama ministers are evangelicals who are “pilgrims on earth” with their destination, heaven. Born on April 13, 1960, Bamiloye founded Mount Zion on August 5, 1985. His debut drama, titled Hell in Conference was staged in 1986. He has featured, produced and directed several Nigerian films over the years.  