 A picture taken on March 12, 2020 shows the logo of energy giant Saudi Aramco at the entrance of its main building in Riyadh. – Stock markets in energy-rich Gulf states tumbled with Saudi shares down 3.0 percent following worldwide losses amid fears over the coronavirus pandemic and an oil price war. Saudi Aramco dipped 3.0 percent and ended the week down 12.1 percent as the energy giant prepares to announce its first annual earnings. (Photo by FAYEZ NURELDINE / AFP)  These are the first annual results to be announced by Aramco after its historical $29.4 billion initial public offerings and listing on the Saudi Tadawul market last December. The energy giant posted net profits of $88.2 billion last year compared to $111.1 billion in 2018, Monday’s statement said. “The decrease was primarily due to lower crude oil prices and production volumes, coupled with declining refining and chemical margins,” Aramco said. It also said it has made $ 1.6 billion of impairment provisions for losses associated with Sadara Chemical Company, an Aramco subsidiary. “2019 was an exceptional year for Saudi Aramco. Through a variety of circumstances — some planned and some not — the world was offered unprecedented insight into Saudi Aramco’s agility and resilience,” CEO Amin Nasser said. “Our unique scale, low costs, and resilience came together to deliver both growth and world-leading returns, while also maintaining our position as one of the world’s most reliable energy companies,” Nasser said. The results were announced amid a price war between Saudi Arabia and Russia after they failed to agree on additional output cuts to support prices dented by the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. “The recent COVID-19 outbreak and its rapid spread illustrate the importance of agility and adaptability in an ever-changing global landscape,” Nasser said. The kingdom said last week Aramco will pump 12.3 million barrels of oil per day, boosting output by at least 2.5 million bpd. It also announced plans to raise production capacity from 12 million bpd to 13 million bpd. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .