The Coordinator, National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) in Kano,  Hajiya Aisha Mohammed, says 36 corps members of the 2019 batch ‘A’ serving in the state will repeat the service year. Mohammed, who made the disclosure at the passing out parade for the batch on Thursday in Kano, said the affected Corps members absconded from their Places of Primary Assignment (PPA) for about three months. She added that another 72 members would be disciplined for various offences ranging from extension of service for between two weeks to five months. According to the coordinator, the NYSC in Kano  lost a corps member, Mr Sirajo Lawal, during the service year, while 2,494 successfully passed out. Mohammed explained that the late corps member, before his death,  was serving with Fagge Local Government Area of the state. She commended the state Governor,  Abdullahi Ganduje, for his unflinching support to NYSC in Kano, urging his government not to relent in its laudable gesture. The coordinator further said that the corps members, during their service year, were posted to four critical areas of Health,  Education, Agriculture and infrastructure across the 44 local councils of  the state. In his remarks, Gov. Ganduje said that the ceremony indicated that the nation’s prayers for collective dreams of national unity, peace and development was succeeding. Ganduje, represented by the Commissioner for Information, Mr Muhammed Garba, reiterated the administration’s commitment to the overall development of the state. According to him, the government of Kano state embarked on some critical  projects, such as extension of basic infrastructures, free and compulsory basic education. He said that other areas given priority included the expansion of tertiary education and agriculture to avail the citizens and visitors full opportunities for self fulfilment. Ganduje also assured the NYSC management of his government’s commitments to the welfare and security of corps members in Kano state. The governor urged all corps members to contribute meaningfully to the development of their host communities and the nation at large wherever they might find themselves.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .