Nigeria’s Federal Internal Revenue Service said it is still open to tax collection despite the partial shutdown of many businesses and companies in the country. “All FIRS offices nationwide are open to the taxpayers,” FIRS said in an internal circular seen by The Guardian. FIRS, however, said its member of staff will be alternated to prevent a total shutdown in “view of its peculiar role in the economy and to ensure that the level of the current collection does not degenerate further.” The Nigerian government Monday asked all its non-essential workers on Grade Level 12 and below to work from home until further notice as authorities fight to curtail the spread of coronavirus in the country. “As a further step to check the spread of COVID-19, all non-essential public servants on grade level 12 and below are to stay and work from home with effect from Tuesday, March 24 until further notice,” Folasade Yemi-Esan, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, said in a statement. “All other categories of officers, who will be at work, are strongly advised to follow the measures being put in place by the government to curtail the spread of the pandemic, “ she said. Since the increasing rise of the global pandemic in Nigeria, the government has announced a number of measures to curtail the spread of coronavirus. The government has placed a ban on 15 countries with a high prevalence of the virus. Nigeria also suspended its visa on arrival policy on the same day. The Nigerian government on Saturday, March 21 closed all its airports to international flights. The federal and other state governments also closed down all school including tertiary institutions in the country to prevent further spread of the virus. On Monday, March 23, the government advised residents of Abuja and Lagos to stay at home “until further advice is given.” All social, business and religious gatherings in all states of Nigeria have been barred by state governments. A lot of businesses have also closed down and began observing the work-from-home policy. Lagos State Government on Tuesday, March 24 ordered the closure of all markets and recreation centres from Thursday, March 26. So far, Nigeria has recorded 44 cases of coronavirus. Two of the cases have been discharged after recovery and one death.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .