Rivers State Governor’s Wife, Justice Eberechi Nyesom-Wike has described sports as necessary to the development of future leaders, saying it teaches them to be diligent and determined in achieving their set goals. Eberechi made the statement during the recent Trinity International College’s inter-house sports competition held at the school’s sports ground in Ofada, Ogun State. She stated that sports teach children how to take risks, which include weighing them to see if it is worth the efforts. “It also teaches us sportsmanship, which can be said to be proper behaviour while involved in sports. It governs how you behave when you win or lose and how you treat others. “This can be related to the real world because attitude is everything as good ones open doors while bad ones shut it,” she said. She urged the students to make the best out of every situation they find themselves and also encouraged them to keep to rules, as they are the bases for an organized society. Also speaking, the Chairman of Trinity Group, Samuel Olatunji said physical fitness was good for everyone at every field of human endeavour, pointing at the Bible to illustrate his point. “The Bible says there is profit in human exercise. All necessary virtues feature in sports: respect, obedience, discipline, determination, respect for leaders and rules. Indeed, all virtues needed to excel in life are inculcated by sporting competition.” He described sports as an important part of learning, orchestrated to help groom the students and prepare them for their future endeavors. Also speaking at the event, the director of Trinity International College, Mrs. Titi Akintemi said sports brought out the creativity in children, develop unity and team spirit amongst individuals. Akintemi disclosed that her school constantly made efforts to discover and develop talents, adding that many have been discovered from athletics, swimming and chess. “We make sure they continue to learn and develop by organising further training. We have three days in a week for sporting activities, including Saturdays,” she added. At the end of the event, Yellow House finished first with 28 gold medals, 12 silver medals and 12 bronze medals. Blue House came second with a total of 14 gold medals, 25 silver medals, and 15 bronze medals, while Green House was third with a haul of 11 gold medals, 10 silver medals and 14 bronze medals.  The Red House brought up the rear as it collected a total of four gold medals, 10 silver medals and 16 bronze medals.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .