Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, assessing the failed portion of the Eko Bridge during an inspection tour of the facility in<br />Lagos …yesterday. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday said that concerted efforts must be taken to stop the abuse of the use of bridges in Lagos to avoid disaster. The governor, who disclosed that a section of the Eko Bridge had been closed for motorists and commuters for safety of residents and motorists, as well as to pave the way for maintenance work on the failed portions of the bridge, lamented the manner Lagos bridges have been abused. He assured that the state’s Ministry of Transportation would ensure that the traffic rules and principles are followed. “I want to reiterate, and to assure Lagosians that both Lagos State Government and the Federal Ministry of Works will get to work very quickly and we’ll see how quickly we can remedy the current situation. “These are bridges that are not made for us to have dead weight on them and what do I mean by dead weight, all the heavy trucks and containers that we parked on them. They are not designed for such usage. “And so, what we will do is to go back with our Ministry of Transportation and do a full traffic impact assessment. And we will see where we can advise our commuters on how to go about their vehicular movement just as we provide adequate alternatives,” the governor said. Sanwo-Olu, who was accompanied to the site by some state government officials and the Federal Controller of Works, Adedamola Kuti, said that the bridge was partially closed on the need for a thorough engineering investigation to be conducted, which will ultimately lead to the commencement of repair works. He, therefore, urged commuters in the state to be patient and obey traffic officers as they direct people on road diversions to alternative routes while maintenance work is being carried out. He stated that although the bridge is a Federal Government asset, the state government had a responsibility to maintain it for the use of the residents. Kuti, who spoke earlier, said that maintenance of the bridge was a continuous thing to do and that the government was committed to carry out rehabilitation works on worn-out bearings noticed between Alaka and Costain portion inwards Apongbon of Eko Bridge. He stated that the bridge, constructed in the 70s, is no longer safe for commuters and assured that a detailed investigation would be carried out in that regards. “This is Eko Bridge. And we just discovered that the bearings are gone, especially on this particular pair. So, the bearings are broken, and we are having problem with the bridge deck. As a matter of fact, the bridge is no longer safe for public use,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .