 The judges Kaffy, TY Mix and Seyi Shay  With thousands of hopeful contestants ready to audition, the train moved from Lagos to the Rocky City, Abeokuta. Regional judges, Aderounmu Adeola, Brite Ijabor, Osi Suave, Tyrone Grandeur and Ben Ogbeiwi, popularly known as Uncle Ben, came across for unmissable talents in both cities. Determined to affirm their claim to fame, thousands of contestants showcased their talents to the regional judges. Criteria for selection included voice, uniqueness, versatility and creativity, and the regional judges amazingly whittled down the pool of impressive talents to the top 30 participants. Every “Yes” was followed by the coveted Access The Stars card, bringing the lucky 30 a step closer to their dreams. Hard truths and tough love were also dished out by the regional judges, as hundreds of contestants, who did not make the cut received a heartbreaking “No”. Having named the cities’ top 30 talents, celebrity judges Seyi Shay, Kaffy, and Tee-Y Mix took over. The top 30 contestants performed for the judges, after which the top five performers were selected for the next phase of the competition. The top five contestants though elated, had yet another hurdle to cross; all five were required to perform before a live audience at the Access The Stars Concert, in competition with the top 5 contestants in each city. All immensely talented contestants in each city brought their A-game, thrilling thousands of concert-goers with their performances. The contestants shared the stage with industry heavyweights such as Olamide, Naira Marley, Mayorkun, Niniola, Reekado Banks, Small Doctor and Orezi. Although it was a tough call, the judges announced both James Olusoji and Kiskin Sylvester as the chosen performers from Abeokuta, by unanimous decision. Charles Akinloye and Adesewa Solagbade will also be representing Lagos. All four contestants successfully made it to the next phase of the competition — The Bootcamp. To grab front row seats to the auditions and performances each week, viewers can tune in to Views Channel (8pm), Wazobia Max (7pm, 9pm), Africa Magic (6pm, 5:30pm), Sound City (7pm) and ONTV (7pm) every Saturday and Sunday.