The Lagos State government yesterday confirmed that SMS messages received by residents who are 60 years old and above emanated from the Lagos State Residents’ Registration Agency (LASRRA), noting that the aged and vulnerable residents will benefit from the stimulus food package unveiled by the state government on Friday. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, made the clarification yesterday, explaining that SMS from LASRRA was sent to the aged asking them to reply with a “YES”, “FOOD YES” or “SWITCH YES” if their registered home address with the agency remains valid. Lawal noted that the Ministry of Agriculture, in collaboration with LASRRA, devised the initiative to ensure fairness and evenness in the distribution of the stimulus packages, just as he emphasised that Lagos residents duly registered with LASRRA will access similar social benefits in the future. He, therefore, urged recipients of the SMS to respond promptly before noon today, Tuesday, March 31, disclosing that responses will be collated and beneficiaries will start to receive stimulus food packages from the state government. Meanwhile, Tropical General Investments (TGI) Group has donated food items including rice, soya oil and seasoning cubes, as part of its efforts to support the Lagos government in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Read More: Lagos authenticates SMS on stimulus package for aged At the presentation, TGI Group provided 200 bags of 50kg Big Bull Rice produced by its subsidiary, WACOT Rice Limited in Argungu, Kebbi State; 2,500 cartons of Golden Terra Oil and 3,000 cartons of Terra Seasoning Cubes, produced by subsidiaries West African Soy Industries Limited (WASIL) and West African Cubes Limited (WACUB), both located in Sagamu. Corporate Communications Manager, TGI Group, Rafiat Raji, during the presentation of items, said: “In view of the stay-at-home directive, it is clear many Lagosians are facing one level of hardship or the other. Therefore, we understand that it is a collective responsibility to provide support for the less privileged among us, hence our contribution to the Lagos State food bank, which will provide succour to at least 20,000 families”. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Gbolahan Lawal, who received the items, alongside the Special Adviser to the Governor on Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya, on behalf of the state government, noted that the donation was a welcome development. He commended the efforts of TGI Group in its timely response to partner with the state in its intervention to provide food for 200,000 households across 377 wards to cater for the most vulnerable and indigent within the state. “This will also add to what we have in mind in terms if supporting our people. Our target is to reach 200,000 homes across Lagos, and distribution is already ongoing in multiple locations” Lawal said. The group reassured the state government of their commitment to keep supporting the state and country on all fronts in order to flatten the curve of the coronavirus pandemic, while the firm continuously seeks to support its communities during and beyond the challenging times. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .