To cushion the effect of market closure across Lagos State, as a restrictive measures to break the transmission of Covid-19, the state government has set up makeshift markets for food and agricultural produce in selected schools across selected council areas. The makeshift markets will be located at Bishop Aggey Primary School, Ilasamaja; Ajenifuja Primary School, Ilupeju, Mushin; Papa Ajao Primary School, Ladipo Street, Mushin; Akin Ogun Primary School, Mosan; Meiran Community Primary School, Meiran; and Animashaun Primary School, Ijeshatedo off Omilani Street, Surulere, Others are Ikeja Primary School, Ikeja; Opebi Primary School, Opebi, Ikeja; Anglican Primary School, Marine Beach, Apapa; St. Jude Primary School, Ebute- Metta; St. George’s Boys Primary School, Falomo; Community Grammar School, Adelabu, Surulere; Obele Secondary School, Adelabu, Surulere; Fagba Junior Grammar School, Ifako Ijaiye; and Stadium High School, Ifako. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal who announced this, said the aim of setting up the markets was to provide Lagosians access to food supplies during the restrictive period, and to prevent panic buying following the directive of the Governor that all markets and stores trading in non-essential commodities be closed. Lawal said the ministry along with the Ministry of Health has put in place safety guidelines at each of the makeshift food and agricultural markets, but urged for strict adherence to safety measures by shoppers and necessary precautionary measures of social distancing. The Commissioner pointed out that there was no need for any panic buying by members of the public, particularly since the makeshift markets had been put in place by the state to ameliorate peoples’ suffering, adding that officials of the Nigeria Police Force and Neighbourhood Watch would be on ground to ensure the maintenance of law and order. Lawal explained that the chiefs of the fast moving consumer goods have since assured the state government of their readiness to keep supplies flowing unhindered, saying there is no need for any panic buying from shoppers. He therefore, advised all residents of the state to take individual responsibility during this restrictive period by acting positively so that the chain of the disease’s transmission could be broken in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .