A Chieftain of the Bayelsa State Chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Christopher Abariowei, has described the purported suspension of two governorship aspirants of the party, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, and Preye Aganaba as ruse which cannot hold. He said the purported suspension of the duo and some chieftains of the party in the state by a faction of the party was uncalled for and should be reversed in the general interest of the party and Bayelsans. A faction of the party has in Yenagoa, suspended the former Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, the former member of the President Buhari campaign Council, Engr.Preye Aganaba and eleven other chieftains of the party over alleged anti-party activities. Other chieftains of the Party suspended include the State Deputy Chairman, Orubebe Ogeibiri, a Former Member of the Federal House of Representative and the Director-General of the Lokpobiri Governorship campaign organization, Hon. Wraman Ogoriba, a former member of the Board of Trustee of the Party, Hon.Perez Peretu. Also suspended are the former State Party Chairmanship aspirant, Hon. Sunday Frank-Okputu, a former House of Representative aspirant, Hon. Osom Blackson, Samuel Aredeh, Ebierein Falla Itubo, Pius Otia and a former Publicity Secretary of the Party, Hon. Fortune Panebi. The faction led by Jothan Amos and the State Secretary, Alabo Martins led over 27 signatories of the party to endorse the suspension and forward same to the National Vice Chairman of the Party, South-South, Chief Ntufam Hilliard Eta. According to the Statement purportedly signed Doife Bukoriibo, the committee set by the faction objectively looked into the several allegations of anti-party activities leveled against them that ran contrary to the provision of the APC constitution. “The action was to set clear signals to deviants masquerading in the party especially those working against its collective interest and aspirations. We, however, thank Bayelsans and its numerous supporters for keeping faith with the party and for the above solidarity during and after the November 16th,2019 Governorship elections.” But Abariowei, emphasized that what the party and Bayelsans need now is a United and vibrant opposition to cure the wound of having a government they never voted for. He Said, “We have just witnessed a near success syndrome situation where the Supreme Court painfully aborted and killed an already born child when the November 16, 2019 election won by the APC. That debilitating experience should call for sober reflection rather than fanning the ember of disunity.” “As for Engr. Preye Aganaba, he as one of the leaders of the party who withdrew his case in the court with his support base visibly involved in the process before, during and after the election that produced David Lyon as the Governor-elect. 
“His inclusion, therefore, must have been in my opinion a misplaced conclusion on the part of the party.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .