 An individual at work. Photo: PIXABAY  What Is Agile?
Agile is an iterative and incremental approach to product development. The iterative approach allows for the speedy delivery of value to customers in increments called a Minimum Viable Product (MVP) until all functional features are delivered.
 
It ensures quick feedback cycles for the next iteration and subsequently an improvement in the quality of the next increment delivered. These short cycles mean the changing needs of the customer can be factored into the next cycle, ultimately ensuring the customer gets the right product speedily, one that is usable and adds value to the customer.
 
This is in sharp contrast to the traditional way of managing projects and delivering products, where requirements are gathered up front as much as possible and baselined for a major one-off delivery, during which time the needs of the customer may have changed and the deliverables no longer add value. These, among others, are the shortcomings Agile addresses, and beyond Agile practices, the real benefit comes from Agile is a mindset. Benefits Of Agile
With Agile, you achieve speed to market, more customer involvement, capture changing requirements, get frequent feedback and achieve high-quality deliverables through the collaboration of an independent high performing Agile team with latitude for creativity and innovation.
 
Most importantly, Agile being a mindset helps create a conducive environment in which psychological safety can continue to improve for knowledge workers to think and apply themselves. State Of Agile Adoption In Nigeria
Agile, as a way of working and a mindset, is still very much in its infancy in Nigeria. Start-ups, however, are kicking off with agility ingrained in their model. Some progressive organisations in the private sector are already experimenting with their software development teams.  The future Is Business Agility
The future is business agility. To achieve business agility, you need organisational agility. Essentially, beyond the development teams, all levels, business segments and support functions need to key into the Agile way of working.
 
The benefit of organisational agility lies in the fact that the entire organisation is aligned and in sync on strategic priorities and a consistent brand strategy, as well as sprinting forward as one unit. The alternative is the wider organisation constituting an impediment to business agility, often only giving the illusion of agility, where an idea moves ever so slowly through the hierarchical system, eventually making it to the team for execution, by which time speed is an illusion and value dissipated. Challenges To Agility
The Nigerian society is very strongly patriarchal and hierarchical in power relations. This is reflective of our corporate culture and tends to be top-heavy with information mostly flowing in one direction (a do as directed culture) and one in which psychological safety in the workplace is still very much in its infancy.
 
In a knowledge economy, which, without a doubt, Nigeria is today, where employees are supposedly paid for their brains, we need to question the hierarchical structures and the associated mindset with which we govern, given that we need to create an environment in which knowledge workers can think, be creative and innovative. Does the status quo currently constitute an impediment to change and business agility?  Laniyan, an agile enterprise transformation coach/SAFe programme consultant, wrote from Lagos. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .