The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ado-Ekiti Chapter, has described as a grave error the imposition of fines on Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) and Wole Olanipekun (SAN), for seeking the review of the Bayelsa judgment sacking the All Progressives Congress (APC) governor-elect, David Lyon and his Deputy, Degi Biobarakuma-Eremionye. Babalola and Olanipekun, who stood for the disqualified Lyon and Degi, were slammed with N60 million fine for seeking a review of a matter that had become functus officio and finality, having been adjudicated upon by the highest court. In a statement in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, NBA’s branch Chairman, Olakanmi Falade, said the two eminent legal icons did not do any wrong or commit professional misconduct to warrant such a punitive action from the apex court. Falade said that the affected lawyers had contributed more than anyone to the growth of the legal profession and should not have been treated with scorn and disdain by the Supreme Court’s justices. In another development, the Ekiti State Government has dismissed a teacher for allegedly impregnating a 17-year-old SS3 girl preparing for the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination. The teacher, Mr. Owoosi Gbenga, who was said to be on Grade Level 10 until his dismissal, taught Economics at Alarelu
Comprehensive High School, Igbara-Odo-Ekiti in Ekiti South Local Council of the state. Chairman, Ekiti State Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Mr. Babatunde Abegunde, who disclosed this to journalists in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said that the behaviour of the teacher-led the disciplinary committee of TESCOM to embark on his probe. He said that the commission carried out a thorough investigation on the matter and followed the due process before arriving at the decision to dismiss the teacher to serve as a deterrent to others who might want to indulge in such depraved and unethical acts. The TESCOM chairman, who commended the state government for swinging into action by arresting the culprit, assured the public that Ekiti values would definitely be restored by the Kayode Fayemi-led administration. Abegunde said that findings by the disciplinary committee revealed that the accused had previous bad records as it was discovered that he had previously collaborated with some students to steal laptop computers belonging to the school. According to NBA Chairman, if the judiciary will deliver justice as expected internationally, then the National Judicial Council (NJC) should, as a matter of urgency, advocate for the independence of the judiciary. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .