Over 30 artists are sharing their experience and thought about the challenges of survival. The artists’ point of convergence is a group art show titled Inside Life, which started on March 7 and will run till March 28, 2020, at Vivid Exclusive Art Gallery, Lekki Gardens Phase 2, Lekki, Lagos. The CEO of Vivid, Gabriel Jideonwor, said the exhibition is a gathering of the young as well as experienced African artists. Three years ago, Jideonwor set up the gallery in Abijo, Ibeju Lekki, along Lagos-Epe Road, as a way of expanding art appreciation beyond the regular space. “The most important thing for me is to create a serious platform for high-quality art from local African artists, which has a strong local client base, but which we can also promote beyond borders,” Jideonwor said. “The gallery will be a regular spot for art-loving locals as well as tourists.” Speaking on the show, he said, “the exhibiting artists are increasingly conscious of the many contradictory sides of life, how they influence the potential of an individual or a group and the battles the stronger ones still have to face. “They show through their work some of the struggles they encounter, how they fight the Inside Life, the foul side of life, where jealousy and envy thrive, demeaning others, creating sadness and pain, poverty and sickness.” On the artists, he said, he hopes that the creative minds could touch many, foster encounters and alliances to support one another. He added that such hope “could engage change, discovery and greater strength of the artists. While saying the aim of the gathering is to promote African artists across the world, he added, “the artists come with great aesthetics, different perceptions and mediums in one exhibition.” Exhibiting artists are Okeuhie Solomon, Osemwengie Amos, Chima Ikegwuonu, Yewande Oseni, David Onos, Aluko Henry, Christopher Ogiebo, Obinna Franklin, Kyesmen Benjamin, Olubunmi Gbenga, Azegbe David, Olaniyi Olayinka, Ogunyemi Samson, Chibueze Ifenna, Lawal Yusuf and Buchi Onuchi. Others include Davies Joshua, Akinola Charles, Motunrayo Akanbi, Chioma Joy, Yusuf Seidu, Adeyemi Matthew, Abdulateef, Ayomide Salaudeen, Okobi Paul, Ojimba Chizorba, Daniel Ajayi, Chidimma Nwafor, Asiegbu Collins, Peter Okeoghene, Alexander Eyenghe, Timinadi Clifford, Alfred Enenmoh, Okuagu Dumebi, Barry Nzennaya and Balogun Samuel. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .