The Ogun State government has condemned the comments credited to the state’s Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Dr. Oludare Sunday Kehinde, on former governor of the state, Chief Olusegun Osoba. The comments, which had since received wide circulation in the social media, centred on the success or otherwise of Osoba as a governor and leader, and other renowned leaders of immense repute. The state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, was said to have received the unfortunate and to say the least uncomplimentary comments of the commissioner with dismay, disbelief and shock. According to a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin, the words used in those unwarranted and unauthorised comments were indeed infantile and distasteful. The statement read: “These comments were never a true reflection of the disposition of both the governor and indeed the government and the high esteem that Chief Olusegun Osoba is held. “There is no doubt that Osoba’s repute is timeless and transcends Ogun State and indeed many spheres he has stamped his authority for him to be a subject of such a careless remark. “Osoba is an accomplished journalist, consummate politician, altruistic leader, and a very forthright compass for the entire progressive community in Ogun State, South-West and the nation as a whole. “Through the dint of Osoba’s consistency, hard-work and commitment, he has birthed many administrations in Ogun State and many have achieved success and attained leadership positions with the benefits of his tremendous goodwill, which he generally provides, to identify and nurture talents”. “Abiodun is indeed proud to be associated with Osoba and remains grateful for his leadership role in bringing the current administration in place and his role as a pillar of support will continue to stabilise the Dapo Abiodun administration. “It is therefore no exaggeration that Akinrogun Egba, Aremo Akile Ijebu, Araba Yewa, Asalu of Remo is the father of modern Ogun State. Needlessly, to say, the commissioner is on his own. “For emphasis, Prince Dapo Abiodun totally disassociates himself and the administration from the unsavoury comments of the commissioner and reassures all that this unfortunate incident will not in any way detract from the very cordial relationship between Baba and himself. “It is gratifying that this issue has been discussed with Baba and as usual, he has demonstrated the fatherly and reassuring understanding of a leader, he truly is. Dr. Kehinde has accordingly been reprimanded.” The governor has, therefore, tendered an unreserved apology to Osoba for the comments made by the commissioner. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .