EFCC arraigns two for obstructing arrest of alleged money launderer
A Wuse Zone 6 Magistrates’ Court sitting in Abuja yesterday sentenced a 39-year-old man, Abba Tukur, to 14 days imprisonment for insulting the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Wuse Police Station. Tukur of IBA Haruna Street, Wuse, was charged with a one-count charge of intentional insult. Tukur pleaded guilty to the charge and begged the court for forgiveness. In his ruling, Magistrate Ahmed Ndajiwo sentenced Tukur to 14 days imprisonment, after he pleaded guilty and begged the court for leniency. The judge, however, gave the convict an option to pay N5, 000 as fine and cautioned him to be a responsible citizen and desist from breaking the law. Earlier, the prosecutor, ASP Peter Ejike, FCT Command, told the court that on March 18, at about 9:30p.m. Whisky 6 Patrol team attached to Wuse Zone 3 Police Station, were out on patrol. The prosecutor explained that the patrol team, which was headed by Insp. Ozioma Edank, while on patrol arrested Tukur with a motorcycle around Wuse Zone 3, Abuja. Ejike said the convict, who was arrested and taken to the police station for his disobedience, walked into the DPO’s office and began to insult him intentionally. He stressed that during police investigation, Tukur admitted to have committed the crime, an offence that contravened the provisions of Section 399 of the Penal Code Law. Meanwhile, the Uyo zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday arraigned one David Sambo Idio and Israel Sampson before Justice Agatha Okeke of the Federal High Court sitting in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State on a one-count charge bordering on obstruction of justice. The operatives of the zone, in December 2019, visited Sunhill Farms in Ibiono Ibom Local Council of the state to arrest one Ubon Emmanuel Essien, who is allegedly involved in a money laundering case. Upon arrival, the defendants alongside others who are currently at large, mobbed and attacked the operatives and damaged their Toyota Hiace bus. The obstruction made it possible for Essien to escape arrest. The charge reads: “That you, David Sambo Idio and Israel Ime Sampson on or about December 2019 in Uyo within the jurisdiction of this court, did willfully obstruct authorised officers of the EFCC from conducting the entry, investigation and arrest of one Ubon Emmanuel Essien at Sunhill Farms in Ibiono Ibom LGA in order to aid and facilitate Essien’s escape from the authorised officers of the EFCC and thereby committed an offence contrary to provisions of Section 38 (2) (a) of the EFCC Establishment Act 2004 and punishable under Section 38 (2) (b) of same Act.” They pleaded “not guilty” to the charge preferred against them. Counsel for the EFCC, Nwandu Ukoha, thereafter asked the court for a trial date and for the defendants to be remanded in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service. The matter has been adjourned to April 26 for hearing of bail application and April 29, for commencement of trial. The defendants were remanded in the custody of the Nigerian Correctional Service.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .