Senator representing Osun Central Senatorial District Ajibola Basiru on Thursday said the President Muhammadu Buhari does not to address Nigerians as the world strives to stop the spread of coronavirus. “For God sake the president is not the public relation officer for the country,” Basiru said during a phone interview on Rave FM Osogbo. “This is a sensitive issue, the fact that you are a president does not make you the wisest man on earth or the expert in everything,” he added. Critics have faulted the president’s silence since the first case of coronavirus was announced on 27 February. Many state governors have since addressed their states and also announced different measures to curb the spread of the dreaded virus. But Bashiru argued it was needless for the president to address the nation since the Minister of Information Lai Mohammed, Minister of Health and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control are providing regular updates. “What do you want the president to say? What information do you need that is not available on the NTA or NCDC website?,” Bashiru queried. The senator, who himself is on self isolation after he recently returned from the United Kingdom, said all the necessary offices are doing their “works very excellently.” Bashiru also debunked rumours that he has tested positive for the virus, noting that fake news and misinformation has taken over the “unfortunate development.” Nigeria has recorded 51 cases of the coronavirus so far with Lagos having the highest cases, 32 cases, of the dreaded virus. Abuja has 10 cases while Ogun State has three cases. Oyo, Rivers, Ekiti, Bauchi and Osun States have one case each. Buhari’s Chief of Staff Abba Kyari and Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed are part of the cases confirmed so far. On Monday, Nigeria reported its first coronavirus-related death. The deceased, Suleiman Achimugu, was a former managing director of the Pipeline and Product Marketing Company (PPMC). He had multiple underlying health conditions including cancer, diabetes and had been undergoing chemotherapy treatments, the statement from the agency said. Federal and state governments have since escalated their responses to curb the spread of the virus. Public health experts are worried that the virus could overwhelm the health system if infection rates rise steeply. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .