• Commissioner declares state Lassa fever-free in Maiduguri
• No case of Covid-19 in Kebbi, Katsina, say govts The Taraba State Government has joined the state governments seeking ways and means of curbing the spread of Covid-19 by establishing two isolation centres. The centres are located in the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) and the State Specialist Hospital in Jalingo. The state capital Commissioner for Health, Dr. Innocent Vakkai, who disclosed this yesterday while briefing newsmen on the measures so far put in place to contain the pandemic, said the isolation centres were designed for any eventuality. He noted that Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku has directed that adequate measures be put in place to ensure prompt detection of suspected cases of Covid-19 should the virus spread to the state. Stressing government’s determination to halting the virus from spreading, he said surveillance officers have been deployed to various entry points in the state. “The ministry will procure and pre-position drugs and medical supplies in health facilities, particularly at the FMC and Specialist Hospital.
Also, the Borno State Government has set up an isolation centre at the upgraded Abba Kyari Memorial Hospital, Maiduguri to prevent the outbreak and spread of the deadly virus in the state. While briefing newsmen on government’s preparedness, Commissioner of Health, Dr. Salihu Kwaya Bura said, “The activation of this surveillance and treatment centre was to halt any outbreak and spread of virus, which he said was yet to be recorded in the state. “Our health personnel have undergone training, and are already deployed to the Abba Kyari COVID-19 centre to receive any patient that develops symptoms of disease.” He noted that there was no outbreak of the virus in any party of the state. While warning the people against panics at motor parks, palaces of worship and markets, Bura said that if they develop symptoms, an immediate medical assistance be sought from the new centre. Besides, the Kebbi State Government has said the state has no case of coronavirus, but a committee has been set up to prevent the outbreak of the disease in the State. Commissioner for Health, Ja’afar Mohammed said the state government has put all the machineries in place to ensure that people entering the state were properly screened. Meanwhile, the Katsina State Government yesterday said the state has no case of Coronavirus as tests carried out on a suspected carrier tested negative. Commissioner for Health, Yakubu Nuhu who stated this at a press confrence, said samples taken from the patient to Abuja two days ago, came back showing patient was not having the virus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .