In a recent tweet, the President of Marlians, Naira Marley, has come out to say he does not believe there is Coronavirus in a live session. In his words:
If I don’t believe it I’m using my common sense, you don’t believe in everything they show you. You have to use your own brain. I might be wrong, it doesn’t mean I’m right because I don’t believe in it. After the live session, he tweeted that those who do not believe in coronavirus should retweet his tweet. This did not go down well with many Nigerians as they have shown via some tweets how disappointed they are regarding Naira Marley’s stance about the virus. Find below some of the tweets: Naira Marley should stop please wtf. pic.twitter.com/PE8gg8gwM8 — Blue (@DharBluee) March 23, 2020  You are dumb and dull to expect better from Naira Marley. He called girls puta and you all danced but you are here now expecting him to act sane, not possible. A lion can never give birth to a goat, nothing sensible can come out of Naira Marley’s tweet or speech..it’s expected — Lola Okunrin (@lollypeezle) March 23, 2020  You people should just ignore naira marley and his nonsense talk… I mean, what were you really expecting from him? Pls lets not waste our precious time on frivolities. Don’t forget to wash your hands regularly. Thank you. — NWANERIAKU 1 NA AWKA-ETITTI  (@Dasucre) March 23, 2020  All these dragging that’ll be aimed at Naira Marley will be well deserved. Drag his dreadlocks like tiger gen rope — AJ | Adonai Jacuzzi (@mrmanhere_) March 23, 2020  Does Naira Marley have any positive influence at all? — Jack Robinson (@FeralJack_) March 23, 2020  Marlians waiting for Naira Marley to say his account was hacked and he didn’t tweet all that nonsense pic.twitter.com/QQEEViquvf — Sleek Timmy  (@ShyBloggerPR) March 23, 2020  Celebrities like Zlatan and Naira Marley are used to coming to say very stupid things online; and when the backlash begins, they quickly announce giveaways to douse the tension and keep trending. They are good at exploiting the desperation and poverty of majority of Nigerians.Sad — Kelvin Odanz (@MrOdanz) March 23, 2020  Naira Marley you’re a bully!!!! https://t.co/FYeTZq0mlJ — AUNTY BELLA (@shopwithbella_) March 23, 2020  “Dear Diary, for the first time in over a week, I’m happy today. These people were calling Naira Marley their president but today, just like I did, he has disgraced them. I’m happy” pic.twitter.com/8eRyfzkvGB — … (@Sxmto_) March 23, 2020 