The recent shrinking of the South African economy in the last quarter of 2019 has strengthened Nigeria’s position as the biggest economy in Africa. This is the case, irrespective of the exchange rate used in the comparison, whether the N306 of the official foreign exchange market or the N360 of the parallel market, hence making the greater size of the Nigerian economy on the continent incontestable. The actual GDP figures for the fourth quarter of 2019 indicate that South Africa’s GDP, based on an average of about 14.43 rand-dollar exchange rate, stands at $352 billion while Nigeria’s GDP is either $402 billion or $476 billion, depending on which exchange rate is used in the computation. Indeed the Nigerian economy is the undisputed, largest economy in Africa.
 
In the same vein, official data indicate that the South African economy entered its second recession in two years quite unlike Nigeria, which has maintained a positive growth momentum since the second quarter of 2017 when it exited its five-quarter recession. While the South African economy shrank by 1.4 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2019, following a revised 0.8 per cent contraction in the third quarter, Nigeria’s GDP grew by 2.55 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2019, the greatest recording of quarterly GDP growth since it exited recession. The recent downgrading of Nigeria’s 2020 GDP growth rate by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for 2020 can be better understood by the downward spiral of crude oil prices, which has been the bane of the economy. This notwithstanding, the growth prospects of the Nigerian economy do not appear dim unlike that of South Africa where frequent power cuts have placed some significant obstacles to economic growth.
 
For many observers, this acclaimed position of Nigeria occupying the biggest economy position on the continent is not really cheery. Many have argued that in a situation where living standards in the country are deteriorating and poverty becoming widespread, what value does the ordinary man derive by the new “biggest economy’’ status the country now occupies on the continent? In addition, Nigeria has for some time now, been classified as the “poverty capital of the world”, by the World Economic Forum given that the country overtook India, the erstwhile occupant of the position. In a country where the number of out-of-school children, particularly in the northern parts of the country is growing, by leaps and bounds and insecurity growing across the length and breadth of the nation, the average Nigerian is not amused by this “biggest economy” classifications for the Nigerian economy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .