FILE PHOTO: Britain’s Prince Charles looks on during a visit to the London Transport Museum, in London, Britain March 4, 2020. Victoria Jones/Pool via REUTERS/File Photo Prince Charles, the eldest son, and heir to Queen Elizabeth II has tested positive for the coronavirus, as announced in a statement via his official website. Despite this news, the Prince of Wales “otherwise remains in good health”, his office said on Wednesday. Read More: Coronavirus: Nigerians React As Osinbajo Tests Negative The 71-year-old and his wife Camilla — who does not have COVID-19 — were tested by the state-run National Health Service (NHS) in Aberdeenshire in northeast Scotland and are currently self-isolating, Clarence House said. “He has been displaying mild symptoms but otherwise remains in good health and has been working from home throughout the last few days as usual. “The Duchess of Cornwall (Camilla) has also been tested but does not have the virus. “In accordance with government and medical advice, the prince and the duchess are now self-isolating at home in Scotland.” In addition, the statement also stated that “It is not possible to ascertain from whom the prince caught the virus owing to the high number of engagements he carried out in his public role during recent weeks,” it added. Read More: Coronavirus: 5 Films To Look Out For While Self-Isolating Upon the breaking of this news of such magnitude, people across the globe have shown concerns about it and somehow found a way to infuse a bit of humour into it. See some reactions below: *Prince Charles tests positive for corona virus* Princess Diana in heaven:  pic.twitter.com/GIIk3GkNON — FamousNash (@FamousNash) March 25, 2020  *Prince Charles gets corona virus*Journalists tryna figure out a way to blame Meghan Markle : pic.twitter.com/14I5Ip5Q1m — Ayu (@Ayub_Yusuf128) March 25, 2020  Prince Charles gets the virus – Journalist racing to see who can blame it on Meghan markle first pic.twitter.com/kR0u4HMuwW — yi-seo fumbled the bag (@Flvrgurl) March 25, 2020  princess diana to miss rona after finding out prince charles has coronavirus pic.twitter.com/J3Hbduum1w — yaznia (@yaznia_p) March 25, 2020  I read that Prince Charles has tested positive for coronavirus at the exact time my mother, a nurse, gets back from a 12-hour  night shift at her hospice. Nice the monarchy gets tested. But how about my mum? On the frontline, looking after our loved ones in their final hours. — Philip Proudfoot  (@philipproudfoot) March 25, 2020  Doctors & nurses can’t get tested. Prince Charles can. — Mr Ethical (@nw_nicholas) March 25, 2020 