 Victor Ndoma-Egba  He was a three-term senator, representing Cross Rivers Central Senatorial District of Cross River State in the Nigerian Senate from 2003 to 2015. He holds two national honors, Officer of the Federal Republic [OFR] and Commander of the Niger [CON].  At the very young age of 27, he was appointed the Commissioner for Works and Transport in the old Cross River State [i.e. that is Cross River State, before it was split into Cross River State and Akwa Ibom State]. In addition to this role, he had to act as the Commissioner for Justice. Before venturing into full-time politics, Ndoma-Egba had an illustrious career during which he held several leadership positions. Some of these include Pioneer Chief Executive of the Cross-River State Directorate for Food, Roads and Rural Infrastructure and at the same time, he was the Director of Cross River Basin Development Authority during the third republic Chairman of the Calabar branch of the Nigerian Bar Association and president of Calabar Chamber of Commerce also for unprecedented three terms. He also chaired boards of companies in the private sector with interest ranging from banking, construction and manufacturing. His foray into politics was highlighted by his election into the Nigerian Senate in 2002 to represent Cross Rivers State – Central Senatorial District and remained there until 2015. During this eventful period, He held several positions, including the following: Vice Chairman, Senate Committee on Solid Minerals; Chairman of the newly created Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, making him the official spokesman of the Senate. He later became the Deputy Senate Leader and is credited with over 38 bills, including the “Freedom of Information” and “Prisons Reform” bills. The pinnacle of his career in the Nigerian Senate was on June 6, 2011, when he became the Senate Leader and he remained in that position till June 6, 2015. He also had the distinct and unique privilege of being elevated to the rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria in 2004, the first and the only one for twelve years from the National Assembly and the only one so far from the Senate and outside legal practice and academics. On leaving the Senate in 2015, he returned to his law practice as a Senior Partner in the Law Firm of Ndoma-Egba, Ebri & Co in Abuja. Before he could settle fully into his legal practice, he received a call to serve the nation again. This was in July 2016, when he was appointed as the Chairman of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) by President Muhammadu Buhari.   This is where he served until 2019 when he resigned to return to politics.  A devout Roman Catholic, and philanthropist, Senator Victor Ndoma – Egba has supported the Church in Nigeria, no matter the denomination. This he has done by financially supporting the activities of various denominations, and the training of both priests and pastors. In 2014, he donated musical equipment to 12 rural Christian churches or different denominations. His involvement in the promotion of the church in Nigeria, culminated in the construction of a 1, 000 seating capacity cathedral, located in his home town; which he built with the support of his able wife and handed over to the Catholic Church. The church was dedicated on May 29, 2018 by His Eminence, Cardinal John Onaiyekan. A very broad-minded individual, Victor Ndoma-Egba sponsors Muslims to Mecca for their yearly hajj regularly. His belief in education has motivated his sponsorship of hundreds of youths in various fields of academics. Victor Ndoma-Egba, is described by admirers as a man of integrity, hardworking, and a man with a deep sense of commitment to duty and service. His philosophy of life is that “if you cannot change the world, you can change the space that you stand in”.
Boyd, a public affairs commentator, wrote from Abuja. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .