 Members of FC Bulmaro and officials of Okakuro during the free football clinic held in Lagos… recently.<br />  Specifically, the new pact is aimed at boosting the club’s quest to turn talented young men into superstars. According to Okakuro’s Director, Communications, Development and Growth, Idemabasi Mkpokporo, the pact falls in line with the firm’s quest to “create employment through what we are doing.” Mkpokporo said: “We invest genuinely in people to make them better human beings. They, in turn, in their own little ways, yield positive and impactful returns in their thoughts, words and actions, all swinging on the hinges of true charity and real love, devoid of any form of bias or affiliations. “Ours is about helping others – the helpless, vulnerable, discover themselves, expose them to global opportunities, guiding them steadily on the path to excellence, better economic life and greatness.” She expressed delight in the new partnership, saying, “The club has been very consistent and open in its approach in this direction. “Integrity is very important; this we value highly because the brand Okakuro is the prime minister of performance sports apparels,” she explained. She added that her firm would sponsor the team’s kits for the players, coaches and the entire delegation to the Mediterranean Cup in Barcelona, Spain. In his reaction, FC Bulmaro’s Head Coach, Gonzalo Dibiasi, said the team was not surprised by Okakuro’s interest, adding, “as long as our promoters remain who they have willingly chosen to be, kind-hearted and truly generous, FC Bulmaro will remain a platform of not only opportunities but also equality for all irrespective of class or gender.” Also speaking on the deal, a top official of FC Bulmaro, Benjamin Ashaka believes Okakuro’s way of doing things would impact positively on the team. “Our primary aim of berthing the club is to help others live their dreams, while enjoying ourselves in the Godly bliss of generosity. Thus, more of this kind of partnership support will spur us to not only do more but better, easier and bigger things. “The FC Bulmaro Free Football Clinic is a nationwide project with schools accepted to the project in the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos as a launching pad,” Ashaka said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .