• Oyo designates five centres to test suspected cases Measures being put in place to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak, popularly known as Coronavirus in Ogun State, are yielding positive results. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, who made this known at her Oke-Mosan office in Abeokuta on the second confirmed case of the virus said, “The case was confirmed from one of the 40 persons who had contact with the first Italian index case and was quarantined after testing their blood samples. “If we had not been proactive in tracking down those who had had contact with the first Italian index case, he would have been spreading it everywhere, but for our measures being put in place.” Coker noted that even the person who was identified has not developed any symptoms, insisting that she was optimistic that the remaining 39 peRsons who have spent 13 days as on Tuesday, of 14 days quarantine, would soon be declared free from the virus. She charged all residents of the state to be calm and not panic, assuring that the Ogun State Government would not leave any stone unturned in containing the virus. The commissioner enjoined all to continue to maintain simple personal hygiene by engaging in regular hand washing with soap and flowing water, as well as maintain proper respiratory hygiene by sneezing or coughing or use tissue papers, which must be properly disposed. She added that in the event of any case, people should endeavor to call 08188978392 or 08188978393. Meanwhile, the Oyo State Government yesterday said it has designated five centres to test suspected cases of Coronavirus. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello disclosed this while briefing journalists after the state Executive Council meeting, adding that the centres were located at Adeoyo Hospital, Ring Road; Jericho Hospital, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso; University College Hospital, Ibadan and Military Barracks Hospital at Odogbo, Ibadan. Towards preventing an outbreak of coronavirus in the state, he stressed the need for residents to regularly wash their hands, maintain social distance and constantly use hand sanitisers. Bello also said the state executive council had approved the purchase of 10 ambulances, explaining that of the 10 ambulances, three would be allocated to intensive care units of the state’s hospitals, while seven would serve as supportive ambulances in each of the seven zones of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .