 Members of Nasrul lahi Fatih Society (NASFAT) during a courtesy visit to the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) headquarters in Abuja.  Hassan, who disclosed this during a courtesy call by Nasrul-Lahi-li Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), also emphasised the need for hajj operators to obtain certification. He stated this during a courtesy call to the Hajj House by Nasrul-Lahi-li Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT), led by its President, Alhaji Niyi Yusuf and the Chief Missioner, Sheikh Abdul-Aziz Maruf Onike. While addressing the NASFAT delegation  the Chief Missioner, Sheikh Abdul-Aziz Maruf Onike, the NAHCON boss said: “Hajj operations has become an industry and it has become necessary that Hajj operators and staff will require certification to take part in future Hajj operations. The certification will be carried out through the proposed Hajj Training Institute that will be managed and maintained by NAHCON. He said the commission is making frantic effort to reduce the Hajj cost to the barest minimum, adding that his recent meeting with service providers in Saudi Arabia gave him hope of achieving the task. Hassan noted that reducing the cost of Hajj fare will not be easy but the commission is determined to achieve the affordable Hajj pledge through clever financial engineering. He stated that the commission would soon begin the implementation of the Hajj saving scheme where Nigerians will be afforded the opportunity to save money over a period of time towards their Hajj pilgrimage. “The money saved by the individuals will then be used in accordance with the Islamic tenets and accrued profits shared accordingly with all parties involved including NAHCON,” he said. The NAHCON boss also reiterated the commission’s determination to reduce the amount of days spent in the holy land during pilgrimage by negotiating with the Saudi Authorities. The President of NASFAT, Alhaji Niyi Yusuf congratulated  Hassan on his appointment and pledged its support to the commission in its quest to make Hajj more affordable for Nigerian Muslims. Meanwhile the Supreme council for Sharia in Nigeria also paid a courtesy visit to the NAHCON chairman.During the visit, Hassan, expressed willingness to partner with the council in any area where it could positively impact on the Commission especially in the area of enhancing Hajj operations in Nigeria. He added that the commission and the council share common vision of helping the common man. He said most of the intending pilgrims are common people who need to be helped. He opined that when Hajj savings scheme eventually materializes, would tremendously solve most of the problems of Hajj in the country. Leader of the delegation, Sheikh Rasheed Hadyatullah, said they were in Hajj House to associate with his commitment and zeal to work for the common man by making Hajj affordable. The leader of the delegation who disclosed that his long acquaintances with the chairman for his forthrightness and honesty, gave him a ray of hope that NAHCON would certainly succeed in realizing of its dreams. He therefore advised the commission to formulate good and laudable policies that could translate into far reaching positive effects for the Commission’s operations. Hassan however assured his guests of exploring all the areas they observed with a view to finding solutions to them but also intimated his guests that the Commission is not absolutely in control of all Hajj Policy guidelines but would not relent in working with the relevant Saudi Authorities to alleviate some of these problems. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .