 Chairman, Blaugrana Sports Group International, Leslie Oghomienor (left), and a Sports Psychologist, Dr. Clifford, addressing FC Bulmaro technical crew before the Free Football Clinic session at Saint Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos.  Speaking after leading FC Bulmaro’s technical crew to a parley with representatives of Okakuro Group in Nigeria, Idemabasi Mkpokporo, an excited Oghomienor said his organisation was thrilled by the decision of the sports wear firm to partner with them. “We are moved beyond tears, the joy in our hearts, is not only felt, but can be seen clearly on the countenance on our faces, how excited and happy we are for Okakuro to agree to help others live their life dreams by extending her support for our Bulmaro Free Football Clinic for the academic institutions, leaping with schools in the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, which began with St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos. “We all know that the education of the child in the days of the old was collectively done, and the society then was better for it.  The vices we are seeing today, if any, was like fiction, rare. Today, the reverse is the experience. “Our little intent is to help and see how we can travel that very good and smooth road again. With our willful and genuine collective efforts, directed on the right paths, and timely, we are convinced we are bound to do better than the past good evergreen days,” Oghomienor said. Responding, Idemabasi Mkpokporo, speaking on behalf of Okakuro Group, said the future well being and economic viability of any great nation depended on the quality of her education system and the cultural and social upbringing of the children. “Therefore, since our yearning is for a far better society than the old, our sincere quest is to openhandedly encourage and motivate novel causes, such as the FC Bulmaro Free Football Clinic for schools. “These children are the only future we have, and to be fully secured we must invest in them in any way humanly and legally possible. This informed our decision. One, we believe, is one of the best taken ever. Knowing that in the long term the gains of this social investment we will all enjoy,” Mkpokporo said. Commending the partnership, Dr. Austin Eruotor, President, Whitehouse Group, a sports enthusiast, reiterated that a nation that ignored the sole interest of the children, which is holistic well sustain quality education and upbringing, is bound to be troubled by the negative restiveness of the young vibrant youth population. “We must be bold as a nation, and take our responsibility of raising complete and excellent human beings in order to enjoy the wealth God has given to us as a nation. Thus, we should strive to help in any little way we can,” he advised. Meanwhile, FC Bulmaro’s Head Coach, Gonzalo Dibiasi has revealed that the team would soon unveil their women side, which has been under going training under the tutelage of the female coaches of the Barca Academy Group. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .