The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State chapter, under the leadership of Apostle (Prof) Alexander Bamgbola has advised church leaders, ministers and Islamic leaders to consistently educate their members on the need to follow the procedures recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Lagos State government on how to avoid the spread of Coronavirus that is ravaging the world. CAN said it had become necessary to educate congregations on how to take precautionary measures, because “faith without work is dead.” At a press briefing in Lagos, the association also called on the Federal Government to secure the Nigerian borders to avoid the pandemic. The Christian body noted that the nation could not afford the disease now. CAN also commiserate with Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the affected families of last Sunday’s explosion at Abule-Ado, which killed and displaced many Nigerians. Bamgbola, who led other CAN executive members comprising Apostle (Prof) Alexander Bamgbola as chairman; Baba Aladura, Elder Dr. Israel Akinadewo as Secretary; Bishop Sola Ore, chairman PFN, Lagos branch; Rt. Rev. Dr. Stephen Adegbite, Assistant Secretary, CAN, Lagos Chapter, Rev. Mathew Ogunyase and Chairman, TEKAN/ECWA Block, Rev. Gidion Bondurang, among others, urged the federal and state governments to thoroughly investigate the cause of devastating explosion to negate all manner of rumours and speculations being peddled, which is generating panic. Lauding Governor Sanwo-Olu for creating the Disaster Relief Fund to take care of victims, Bamgbola said: “We wish to commend the urgent and immediate action taken by our beloved governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, following the explosion. In particular, we commend his immediate creation of the Disaster Relief Fund of N2bn, for which he has immediately approved N250m for immediate take-off of the Relief Fund. We wish to express our total support for this laudable project, as there is an urgent need for fund to help all those devastated by this unfortunate event.” They also appealed to ministries, churches and corporate entities and embassies, among others, operating in Lagos to contribute generously to the fund. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .