The Lagos State government has said it will fumigate the entire state to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed this yesterday, said the fumigation equipment would be deployed to every part of the state. This comes shortly after the presidency started fumigation of the Presidential Villa at Aso Rock, Abuja. The governor asked residents to do their part to remain safe and healthy. “To ensure we keep our environment safe and curtail the contagion of #COVID19, we are deploying disinfectant equipment to fumigate the entire state,” Sanwo-Olu tweeted. “These fumigation machines will be deployed to every part of the metropolis for sterilization of our public spaces and surfaces. We are very aggressive in our efforts to combat the novel coronavirus in the state. We all have to take responsibility and do our part in ensuring we remain safe and healthy.” To check the spread of the virus, the government had ordered the closure of markets, apart from those where food and medical items are sold. Parks and other public spaces were also directed to shut down.
The governor also advised residents of Lagos to avoid travelling to and from the state during this period. Earlier, the state government had begun the disinfecting of major bus stops as well as the international airport. A viral video shows some men clad in facemasks and gloves disinfecting the immigration portals, the primary and secondary screening areas, quarantine stand, Nigeria Custom Service among others. Another video shows the exercise taking place at Stadium bus stop, Surulere. Meanwhile, the state government yesterday also said it will commence a four-day fumigation exercise of areas affected by the March 15 explosions in Abule Ado. This was disclosed by the Director General, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Dr. Femi Oke-Osanyintolu, who urged residents to keep off the areas. Oke-Osanyintolu also said 340 structures that were affected by the impact of the blasts would be subjected to integrity test by a joint public-private team led by the Materials Testing Agency. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .