Man beheads 82-year-old woman in A’Ibom
It was a black Sunday yesterday as a family of five perished in a road crash in Kano metropolis. The accident occurred at about 11:00a.m. at Sabon Titi area of the metropolis when a truck allegedly belonging to a cement company knocked the man, his wife and three children, who were on a motrcycle. One of the children survived the accident and is presently responding to treatment. When contacted, the spokesperson of the police command in Kano, DSP Abdullahi Haruna Kiyawa, confirmed the incident. Kiyawa said five victims were evacuated from the accident scene to Murtala Muhammad Hospital and confirmed that one of the victims, a child, survived the accident. Kiyawa added that the police have launched a manhunt for the truck driver who fled the scene immediately after the incident. He revealed that the truck has been moved and detained at the police headquarters in Bompai, adding that investigation is on to track down the fleeing driver. In another development, a young man, Lucky Michael has allegedly beheaded a woman in Oku Abak community in Abak local government area of Akwa Ibom State. The deceased, an 82-year-old Mrs. Cecilia Isong, fondly called ‘Eka Sammy’ and ‘Mma Iko Mbakara’ was on Saturday beheaded in her farm. Augustine Ekwere, an eyewitness, said the suspect was caught by youths of the community who stripped him naked before he led them to the farm where the body of the deceased was found. Ekwere said the suspect had confessed that a prophetess paid him N150,000 to obtain human head for ritual purposes. “The youths of the village caught him and called on the police after their own assessment. The police arrested him and his accomplice. Although the suspect did not mention the name of the prophetess, he said the cash was already paid to him for the hatchet job. I am afraid that such a heinous crime could happen in my community,” Augustine said. The Police Public Relations Officer in Akwa Ibom State, CSP Nnudam Frederick, confirmed the incident. He commended the youths of Oku Abak for joining the police to arrest the suspect.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .