 Soccer Football – Premier League – AFC Bournemouth v Tottenham Hotspur – Vitality Stadium, Bournemouth, Britain – May 4, 2019  Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy before the match   REUTERS/Dylan Martinez  EDITORIAL USE ONLY. No use with unauthorized audio, video, data, fixture lists, club/league logos or “live” services. Online in-match use limited to 75 images, no video emulation. No use in betting, games or single club/league/player publications.  Please contact your account representative for further details.  Levy was speaking on Wednesday as Tottenham announced financial results for 2018-19 which showed the north London club recorded £460 million ($544 million) in revenue. A quarter of that income was a result of their run to the Champions League final. The move into their new stadium also helped revenue increase, with a £27 million jump in corporate and hospitality income. Yet overall profits were still down almost £45 million on 2018’s figure of £113 million, to £68.6 million. With the virus having forced the postponement of the Premier League until at least April 3 and all European competitions in lockdown at present, Levy acknowledged the health crisis is creating huge problems for football. “We are painfully aware that it seems wholly inappropriate to be giving any attention to the prior year’s financial results at a time when so many individuals and businesses face worrying and difficult times,” Levy said in a statement. “We are, however, legally required to announce these by 31 March 2020. “We are all facing uncertain times both at work and in our personal lives. I have spent nearly 20 years growing this club and there have been many hurdles along the way – none of this magnitude – the COVID-19 pandemic is the most serious of them all.” But, despite the current chaos enveloping the game, Levy is determined to keep Tottenham on a sound footing for when play eventually resumes. “With such uncertainty, we shall all need to work together to ensure the impact of this crisis does not undermine the future stability of the club,” he said. “This will include working with the wider football industry and its stakeholders to seek to restore the season – but only when it is safe and practical to do so. “Our priority is the health and well-being of our staff, players, partners, supporters and their families. “We shall look to come out of this stronger and more resilient than ever. Our hope is that the virus peaks over the coming weeks and that we have a summer to enjoy. “Please look after yourselves and stay safe and healthy. This is more important than football.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .