Stakeholders in the energy industry have recommended collaboration, diversity, mentoring and gender inclusion for progress in the sector. This was brought to the fore at a conference organised by Women in Energy Network (WIEN), tagged ‘Closing the Energy Gap’, in commemoration of the 2020 International Women’s Day. Speaking on ‘Outlook for Energy: A perspective to 2040’, Drilling Manager, ExxonMobil, Lola Ani, said energy is essential for societal progress, as living standards are broadly dependent on safe, affordable, reliable and sustainable energy. Ani added that an evolving energy supply mix and continued investment are required to meet population demand in the country. According to her, “policy, technology and consumer preference are required to drive access to affordable energy”. Elozino Olaniyan of Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) said aside basic prospects in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors, there is need to identify low hanging services in the value-chain like catering, laundry services among others. Wife of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Alayingi Sylva, in a statement, stressed that women must be included in the oil and gas sector for maximum benefit to the economic boom. She added that women are no longer spectators in the industry as they are now more actively involved in the sector. President, WIEN, Funmi Ogbue, urged the Federal and state government to strengthen existing policies that would attract more women into Science Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). “Governments should also promote women leadership in the energy sector by appointing more women as heads of agencies, parastatals and institutions at sectional, regional and international levels,” she added. According to Ogbue, women need to develop their capacity to lead effectively while aiming for leadership positions.  (ICT) She appealed to men to become champions for women by creating a new conversation, which would ensure sustainability of empowerment for women and girls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .