The chairman of Yaba Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Kayode Adejare Omiyale, has named the remodeled Reagan Memorial Baptist Nursery and Primary School after the Senator representing Lagos Central Senatorial District at the National Assembly, Senator Oluremi Tinubu. The chairman said the building being commissioned was a child of circumstance following the initiative of former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who returned the schools to their original owners. “Reagan Memorial Baptist Nursery and Primary School belongs to the Baptist mission. It was one of the schools that were returned to the missionaries. Immediately after the transfer, the pupils in this school became something like orphans deprived of any sense of belonging, as they could not lay particular claim to any school as their own. “Attendance in this school was severely affected as enrolment dwindled. I was the Executive Education Secretary of Mainland Local Government Education Authority when the transfer took place. It was therefore apparent by the time I assumed office as the chairman of the Council in 2017 to resuscitate the school.” He stated that the problem of Regan Memorial Primary School was well known to him so he was left with no option but to provide an alternative space for the pupils and the teachers just as it is also expected as an added advantage, that the building will also serve as a symbol of to bring back the glory of the old Regan Memorial Nursery and Primary School. The commissioning was witnessed by many dignitaries from the state including wife of the governor, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, wife of the Minister of Interior, Alhaja Serifat Aregbesola, and the Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo, who represented the governor. Senator Tinubu in whose honour the school was named said the school is now her personal and appealed for more support to equip facilities in the primary school.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .