This year, the Lord’s Achievers Award, which is now in its second year, would celebrate young Nigerian leaders in their various areas of expertise. The awardees include Piggyvest’s triple threat, Odunayo Eweniyi, Somto Ifezue and Joshua Chibueze, the duo behind Nairabox; Jay Chikezie and Tokunbo Adetona, Human rights activist; Segun Awosanya popularly known as Segalink, Art curator and founder of Rele Art Gallery; Adenrele Sonariwo, Jola Ayeye and John Adewusi of Salt&Truth TV, Human Resource specialist; Ivie Temitayo-Ibitoye, breakout comedian Samuel Perry aka Broda Shaggi and Endometriosis advocate, Dr.Nini Iyizoba. Coming off the success of the pioneer edition of the awards held in March last year, this year’s edition will showcase individuals, who have also made outstanding contributions in the Nigerian society in their own way. The award honours individuals, who have attained a remarkable level of progress in their different industries. This initiative was launched to uphold the brand’s desire and mission to honour prominent leadership and achievements and to celebrate young people who strive to achieve distinct success in various professions. Carefully selecting the above in recognition of their excellence and impressive footprint in their various industries, Grand Oak Limited is proud to highlight the unfolding journey of these individuals as they inspire the next generation to come. Last year, the project celebrated eight exceptional individuals, who gave inspiring insights into their journey. This year, 12 individuals, who have made notable achievements in their various industries, will be honoured at a grand ceremony at the Federal Palace Hotel in Lagos next weekend. GM Marketing, Mridul Sharma said, “We believe in celebrating excellence and exceptional leadership. We established this platform for individuals who inspire others through their work despite the unfavourable challenges we face in Nigeria, they have proven determination and dedication to work is integral in moving the nation forward which is greatly encouraged by us.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .