  The stimulus, which comes in food packs to be distributed to every local government in the State, is aimed at cushioning the effect of the 14 days stay-at-home directive. Speaking after an on-the-spot assessment of one of the State-owned food banks, located inside the premises of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives in Agege, Sanwo-Olu said the economic stimulus would reduce the burden of the temporary economic downturn on the citizens caused by the outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19). The Governor said the food packs, which were put together by the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, would reach the most vulnerable communities and households across Lagos. He added that the indigents who rely on daily wages would be given priority. He said: ‘‘We are here for an on-the-spot assessment of our readiness, to see how we can fast track some of our stimulus packages for our citizens. We are all aware that this is a trying time for them and given the partial drop in economic activities, our government deemed it necessary to reach out to the vulnerable ones in society. These people are those that fall below the pyramid, the aged and the physically challenged who need to move from one part of the city to another for them to have a living. We felt that as a government, the least we can do is to identify them and give them these stimulus packages immediately.’’ The Governor stated that the package will touch at least 200,000 thousand households in the first phase, adding that the food packs were produced for size of six people per household and would last for at least 14 days. Sanwo-Olu said: “We have packaged dry food stimulus for about two hundred thousand families in the first instance for a household of husband, wife and about four children. We would be giving bags of rice, bags of beans, garri, bread, dry pepper and we are trying to see if we can add water and some elements of vitamin C. Each ration, we believe is going to last them for at least minimum of 14 days. This is to ensure that our advocacy around a stay at home with your loved ones is respected. “This is a catalytic initiative of our administration with the hope that well-meaning corporate organisations and private individuals can step up to complement our efforts.’’ The Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal earlier said the government would be working with the existing database of the state - using the Lagos State Social register and 4000 community development association register in 377 wards. He said the economic stimulus is part of Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration’s initiatives tailored towards ensuring that food security is sustained in Lagos. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .