There are indications that the non-academic staff in the federal universities, inter-university centres, polytechnics and Colleges of Education might proceed on indefinite strike tomorrow, Wednesday, if there are shortfalls in their salaries.
 
Meanwhile, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige has intervened in the trade dispute declared by the workers.
 
The General Secretary of Non-Academic Staff of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), Peters Adeyemi, who disclosed this Abuja, decried deduction of National Housing Fund (NPF) from tertiary institutions’ workers’ salaries.  “The reason the tertiary institutions pulled out from NPF was that it was not serving the purpose for which it was established. Indeed, some of the conditions that were specified in the scheme included presentation of Certificate of Occupancy before assessing the facility. As a result of that, we protested against our inclusion and government removed from the scheme. Because IPPIS has our data, government just went ahead to play around with our salaries taking what they ought not to have taken from salaries and refusing to pay what they ought to have paid to us,” he stated.
 
He lamented that there were some NASU members that were not paid salaries at all while some were underpaid. 
 
He added that allowances captured in the Polytechnic, Universities and Colleges of Education 2009 agreement entered into with the Federal Government were not captured by IPPIS.
 
The NASU Scribe hinted that its planned seven-day warning strike was shelved due to the closure of all institutions across the country because of COVID-19 outbreak, saying, “We cannot embark on a strike when the institutions are all closed. We cannot also wait for workers not to be paid for three months. That is why if by the end of this month, we are short-changed again, we would have no choice other than proceed on a total strike.”  He also assured workers that were short-paid that the balance of their salaries would be paid possibly alongside the March salaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .