Nabs 10 Suspected Fraudsters In Enugu, Lawyer For Obtaining Money With Commission’s Name 
Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Sokoto Zonal Office, have arrested Tukur Sa’ad Dahiru, Murtala Salihu and Zaharadeen Adamu for an alleged offence of conspiracy and diversion of public property. While parading the suspects on March 19 in Sokoto, the Zonal Head, Abdullahi Lawal, told newsmen that on September 20, last year, the office received a petition written by Concern Citizens of Tambuwal against the District Head of Tambuwal, Alhaji Sa’ad Dahiru Mainasara, and a former chairman of the council, Sambo Bello Modo, for alleged offences of conspiracy and diversion of public property. The petitioners alleged that Mainasara conspired with Modo and Sa’ad to sell an ambulance belonging to the community’s primary healthcare centre. “Upon arrest, the suspects admitted selling the ambulance, which was initially purchased by Tambuwal Council at the cost of N4million at a price of N300, 000 to one Zaharadeen Adamuof Tambuwal town and the money was shared among themselves,” he said. Lawal said Tukur received N200, 000 from Adamu, being proceed of the stolen public property, and allegedly handed over the said sum to his father, while Modo received N100, 000 as his share and handed the ambulance key to Adamu. It was further revealed that one Alhaji Murtala A. Salihu, Manager of Nasarawa Motors, Sokoto, issued his company’s receipt to Adamu, claiming that the vehicle was purchased from his company, to cover the shady deal, while the ambulance, which has been transformed to a commercial bus, has been recovered from Adamu and the N300, 000 fully recovered. In a related development, the Commission has arrested the duo of John Mobuse and Martha Okotie in Akure, Ondo State and Warri, Delta State, respectively, for allegedly defrauding their victims with a fraudulent online PTDF scholarship for undergraduate and postgraduate awards in Nigeria Colleges of Education, Polytechnics and Universities for 2019/2020 academic session. The Commission said upon their arrest, Mobuse admitted receiving over N1.5million from unsuspecting victims across the country, using Okotie’s account as a conduit. EFCC also arrested one Etsano Amaju in Sapele, Delta State, for fraudulently collecting the sum of N45, 000 from one Dalhatu Ladan under the guise of selling an Apple laptop to him. The complainant alleged that since paying the said sum to the account provided to him, the laptop was not delivered or his funds refunded. The Commission stated that in thee course of investigation, the suspect confessed that he had no laptop for sale and he only duped the complainant, adding that the suspect was providing information on several similar deposits of N45, 000 seen in the account and efforts were being made to contact the victims, while investigation is still ongoing and the suspects would soon be arraigned in court. In Enugu, the zonal office has arrested 10 suspected Internet fraudsters from some locations at Bricks Layout and Thinkers Corner in the state capital. It gave the names of those arrested as Anyadike Chinedu, Anyadike Obinna, Ngoka Obinna, Nonso Mbah, Egbo Chigozie, Nwobi Benjamin, Nnabuike Akachukwu, Ede Chidera, Ogbe Donald and Valentine Sunday Okereke, who was allegedly involved in cyber/Internet-related activities and living above their means with proceeds gotten from their activities. Some of the items recovered from them include several sophisticated mobile phones; Dell, Sony, HP and Apple laptops; three Lexus ES 350 cars; Lexus Rx 350; Lexus GS 300 Saloon car; an envelope containing several vehicle particulars and other incriminating items. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .