The average Nigerian needs help. Help to escape his reality: The poorest nation in the world; unresponsive government; disregard for value and praise for ill-gotten wealth and ultimately, his desire to remove himself as a number in the “below poverty” category. T.B. Joshua. Photo: Iharere Of all glorified methods including hard work, religion has become his escape. His utmost belief in his “faith” is what helps him live for another day. And with this religion comes an even firmer belief in the head of his religious organisation. It is for this reason and more that religious heads are seen as gods and prophecies are taken into stride.
Despite Nigerians ‘ faithlessness in the government, it is not uncommon for the average Nigerian to pay attention to prophecies on the Nigerian state. Here, polls are treated with the bare minimum and prophecies of who will become the next saviour with high regard. One of the revered world-renowned Lagos-based pastors is T.B Joshua, founder of The Synagogue, Church of All Nations (SCOAN) and he is one of such prophets. Not only is he credited with prophecies that came to pass in the world affairs, but he has also performed jaw-dropping (sometimes questionable) deliverance miracles. Today, March 27, he has declared it an important day in the world. Why? Earlier in the month, he prophesied the end (March 27) of the Coronavirus pandemic that threatens the world and has seen a record death of people across continents. Since yesterday March 26, Nigerians have taken it upon themselves to remind him of the aforementioned date. In view of this, we take a look at some of his alleged prophecies. Narrow Clinton Win One of the world’s most important elections (the US Presidential elections) was slated for Nov 8, 2016. Along came T.B. Joshua, “Ten days ago, I saw the new President of America with a narrow win “The new President will be facing several challenges over many issues, including: passing bills, attempts to possibly pass a vote of no confidence on the new President. The boat of the new President will be rocked.
 “By the way, in order not to keep you in suspense, what I frankly saw is a woman.” While many Americans on social media had said that they had had enough of The Republicans, a poll showing a landslide victory looked imminent. In fact, all key state polls predicted a 90-99% victory of the Democratic presidential candidate, Hillary Clinton. Two days later, President Donald Trump was declared the winner. World War 3 In 2011, blogs were awash with a prophecy by T.B Joshua on an impending World War 3. Reports stated that this would begin as soon as Isreal strikes Iran. In a swift move, the SCOAN team debunking this wrote on their page, There is currently a rumour circulating that on Sunday 11th December 2011, TB Joshua predicted a third world war.
 CORRECTION: Prophet T.B. Joshua did not say that there would be a third world war. He did not say that civilisation would be gone. We should be very careful about changing a prophetic message to suit our own philosophy or our own world view. Biafra T.B. Joshua is a favourite of the South-East Biafran supporters and the reason is not far-fetched. In a video purportedly circulated within circles, he claimed, “There is a great nation going out from Nigeria, before October this year” [As he said it, the Igbos in his church shouted Biafra Biafra! ] And the man of God laughed and said this year is a Biafra year. I saw it clearly in my vision.” However, the existence of the video has been brought to question. End of Coronavirus? The latest of his many prophecies is the end of the coronavirus. According to a video of him circulating the internet, Nigerians are counting down. Yet, a tweep @MX_Mahlangu has cried foul.  While another tweep @Always_Bklin wants Nigerians to learn patience  Will this happen? We sincerely hope it does. In the meantime, we are desperately getting warmed up for our victory cry which will start in less than 24 hours. UPDATE: Well, it’s 12 am of March 28 and March 27 saw 5 confirmed cases added to Nigeria’s list. But we are Nigerians and are supposed to continue in the “faith.” In typical Nigerian fashion, IT IS WELL.