 Chief Operating Officer, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, Olamide Adeyemo (left); Vice President, Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA), Mr. Emeka Ogbu; Brand Development and Activation Manager, Premier Cool, Eniola Ogunlade and Director, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, Sola Fijabi, at the official press on the 2020 HIFL in Lagos.  Premier Cool from the PZ Cussons stable, recently announced that it would sponsor the competition for yet another season. During last edition, Premier Cool was instrumental in the training of not just the players but also everyone involved in the competition, including coaches, who benefited from a coaching clinic held by Manchester City Football Club for Nigerian collegiate coaches. Speaking at a press conference organised to review as well as showcase the achievements of the previous seasons and also inform the media on its plans for 2020, HIFL organisers, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, made it known that they were preparing for an even better third season as they look to consolidate on their successes thus far. Ogunlade at the event said, “For us at Premier Cool, the Higher Institution Football League has lived up to expectations and we are proud to be identified with the brand. This year, we are once again happy to announce the renewal of our sponsorship deal with HiFL. “In the last two seasons of the Higher Institution Football League we have seen and are proud to be a part of the emergence of several stars like, Ebuka Odenigbo of Kano Pillars, Emmanuel Ogbolee of Nassarawa United, and Osas Imade of Bendel Insurance amongst others. “We are confident of the numerous talents that are yet to be discovered in our various campuses and so we are encouraged to provide opportunities for these talents to grow and express their abilities to a teeming population and scouts for possible career advancement.” Earlier, Chief Operating Officer, PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, Olamide Adeyemo had expressed gratitude toward all the partners associated with the constant accomplishments and development of the HiFL, which is currently in its third season. He revealed that the 2020 season would involve more than 52 schools from across the nation, having recorded 32 the past season. The preliminary matches would kick – off in April To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .