The Oyo State police command yesterday confirmed the abduction of two sisters, Pastor Omobola Adepoju and Mrs. Abiola Olukotun at a farm in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The duo are daughters of the late Chief Emiola Adesina, former Director of Sports in the old Western Region and proprietor, Subuola Memorial Nursery/Primary School, Ibadan. The police said the community where they were kidnapped have been cordoned off by security agencies in an effort to arrest the abductors. Olugbenga Fafeyi, the Police Public Relations Officer in the command, said: “They were kidnapped yesterday (Monday) at a farm towards Badeku in Ibadan. The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Shina Okukolu, gave a matching order to burst the crime. “As we speak, the anti-kidnapping squad, the Special Anti-robbery Squad, the Special Tactical Team, the Police Tactical Team, Operation Puff Adder, the IGP Tactical Team and the Federal SARS have all been deployed to the area. They are carrying out a massive manhunt for the kidnappers in order to secure their release. They are combing the bush and the adjoining communities,” he said. A close family source said yesterday that “Pastor Omobola Adepoju came in from Atlanta and was with her sister in her farm at a location on Ife Road in Ibadan where they were both kidnapped. The kidnappers have called the family to demand N100 million as ransom.” When reached, husband to one of the victims, Mr. Kitolu Olukotun, said the abductors were six in number, noting that three of them are Fulani herders.
“My wife and sister-in-law went to the farm in the afternoon on Monday. Suddenly, the kidnappers emerged from the bush. According to one of my boys on the farm, they were six in number. “Three of them are Fulani while the remaining three are Yoruba. One of them was carrying an AK-47 rifle, which they shot sporadically into the air. They shot at the tyre of the vehicle and also fired a shot at the driver of our customers. They ransacked the vehicle probably looking for something. After that, they marched my wife and her sister-in-law through the bush path. “When they called me, they demanded N100 million. But I told them I don’t have such money; I told them to accept N1 million but they disagreed. They then refused to speak with me. They have been threatening my wife. They insisted they would not take anything less than N20 million”, he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .