Telecommunications subscribers, and indeed customers deserve the best of services for the sector to move forward, but operators are seriously challenged. This was the view of the Executive Vice-Chairman Signal Alliance, Collins Onuegbu, in a chat with The Guardian on Monday. Onuegbu noted that customer service in the sector is still poor, “but if you look deeply into the industry, you will discover that no operator wouldn’t want to offer the best of service, but this terrain is tough, challenges everywhere. “I was talking to a friend in one of the telcos, and he gave me a load down of the challenges they are coping with. He went as far as telling me that fibre cuts have risen significantly and contributing to increasing dropped calls. “He equally told me efforts they are making to prevent some of these things. So, I think we need to support them as consumers. Also, the government must help in creating a better business environment.” According to him, operators are coping with erratic power supply, rising Right of Way charges, vandalism and theft of facilities, and government seeing them (telcos ) as new ‘oil’ through multiple taxations. He stressed that the government’s support for the telecoms sector is critical to increasing its present contribution to GDP from 10 per cent to something higher. Onuegbu, who informed that Signal Alliance, will be celebrating customers this week, as part of the firm’s 2020 Customer Week, which kicked off earlier in the week. According to him, Customer Week is a period set aside yearly for the firm to appreciate its numerous customers, partners and other stakeholders, who have made the previous year a success and identify with the various communities that have supported the business in diverse capacities. Onuegbu said as a tradition, over the past 10 years of its inception, the Customer Week is held within the 1st quarter of the year with various activities during the week. In the same vein, the Marketing Manager, Adebola Adeyinka stated ‘’we do not take for granted the pivotal contribution of our customers to the growth of our organization, this program is one of the many ways we appreciate them for trusting us with their business and standing by us through the years.” Speaking on the rampaging coronavirus, Onuegbu said businesses in Nigeria and across the globe are seriously scared because of its impact. According to him, with China experiencing serious locked down due to the virus, “getting supplies, especially ITs has become difficult in the last two and have months. I will say maybe the virus was under the estimated reason is spreading fast and impacting the global economy. Imagine the drop in oil prices; this could lead economies to the recession.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .