In its renewed bid to enforce its drive for a cleaner market, leaders at the Ladipo auto spare parts market, Mushin, Lagos State, at the weekend embarked on a massive cleaning campaign to rid the market of filth and pollution in the first of its annual quarterly cleanup. The clean up was also used to sensitise traders on the outbreak of coronavirus and precautionary measures to be adopted to prevent the spread of the virus in the largest market for fairly used (Tokunbo) motor parts in West Africa, especially for some of the traders, who frequently travel out of the country to import automobile spare parts. The exercise and sensitization walk round the market was led by the president-general of Ladipo Central Executive Auto Dealers Association (LASEC), Jude Nwankwo. Nwankwo called for the regular cleaning of the market in tandem with the state government’s policy. Many traders were caught unawares when a team of the LASEC, led by Nwankwo, inspected the 45 units of the market. Some who thought it would be business as usual and displayed their goods were shocked to see the team. They were ordered to pack up and partake in the cleaning, which lasted for three hours, from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. He warned those who have turned a portion of the road to displaying their wares to stop or face the union’s wrath. Speaking to The Guardian, Nwankwo said the leadership was moving around to ensure all traders participate in the exercise to keep the market clean and avoid harassment from the government, which may lead to another closure. “Although the general cleaning holds on Thursdays, today’s cleaning is a quarterly exercise to make sure we are safe from coronavirus. We also noticed that there has been traffic by the service lane leading to the market on Oshodi-Apapa expressway due to the reconstruction of the highway but we have evacuated our cars and trucks in other to reduce congestion,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .