Our worst fears have come to pass. On Wednesday, March 9, in the year 2020, the Kano State Government sacked the embattled Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. Meaning he has been dethroned. Meaning that day was his inauspicious date with destiny. All this, reminiscent of the bizarre 1963 drama when Northern Region Governor Kashim Ibrahim, working at the behest of the all-powerful Northern Premier Ahmadu Bello, sent his grandfather, Emir Muhammadu Sanusi packing.
 
Only two weeks ago I wondered in this column whether the North had the stomach to tolerate what can be described as the ex-Emir’s apparent heresy, his unorthodox approach to solving the humongous problems of the North and that of his emirate in particular. I said that the kind of things he was wont to say and preach and may-God damn-you- the manner of saying it, had so often put him in the line of fire. 
 
I recalled that he had a brush with the Kano State Government in 2017 when he was accused of a plethora of offences ranging from misinterpreting the Holy Qur’an, endlessly dabbling into politics, egregious rumour mongering, as in a state governor going to China, before the advent of Coronavirus, with a retinue of officials to negotiate a loan agreement for an apparently dubious rail project. The state house of assembly hauled him before a probe panel but common sense prevailed and he was saved by the whiskers from being escorted to the Golgotha.  Apparently, this sweet reasonableness was bad music to the ears of the establishment. The removal of this self-confessed apostle of Bala Usman’s brand of socialist radicalism, may not solve any problem, except to deny him the royal rostrum from which to thunder his views. And deny the people a clear voice of reason. 
 
The column I wrote on Sanusi’s last public engagement as emir was published on February 26. It was titled: Will it move the North? I followed it up last week by ex-raying the bold move of Governor Abdullahi Ganduje who announced the ban on street begging and outlawed the Almajiri system of imparting Islamic and Qu’ranic knowledge to the children. Before the sacking of the outspoken Emir, I had decided to publish a few reactions to the column:  Correction: At Independence there were two universities in Nigeria, not five: University of Ibadan (1948) and the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (1960). Ahmadu Bello University, the Universities of Lagos and Ife all were established in 1962.
 
M T Usman
 
Thank you, Yakubu Mohammed, for your Wednesday column in respect of Muhammadu Sanusi the 2nd on February 26, 2020. Tijjani Dukawa, Kano.
 
The Almajiri issue will be better resolved if all the tiers of governments put heads together. Let all the Almajiris remain with their Mallams (teachers) and get registered into the nearest schools and the Mallams gave feeding allowance and uniforms which will be a kind of mini boarding in every Qu’ranic school. The Almajiris are on the streets begging for food which this mini boarding can offer them. SalIhu Dikko, Kano. 
 
Dear Yakubu, may God bless you for your article on Almajiri system. However, for the “hanging fire” to be extinguished, draconian action especially against the parents for disrespecting the law should be implemented. All parents should be directed to come and pick their children within a specified time. Traditional rulers should be empowered to monitor this bad trend right from the grassroots level. 
 
Abbas A. Kila  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .