A man and woman jogging | Photo: Getty images It is good to boost your immune system when necessary as this will help you heal faster from illnesses or fight against external bodies that might be harmful to your body. Experts say some key things for healthy living include; a nutritious diet, adequate sleep, and some diligent hand washing. In general, most people don’t need supplements or vitamins for a healthy lifestyle, although doctors do recommend them in certain cases where people may be deficient. Below are some immune-boosters that might be useful for you especially during this period; Vitamin D
Vitamin D does more than strengthen your bones. It’s not a vitamin, but a hormone that boosts your immune system. According to the Healthy, Vitamin D supports a healthy immune system by acting as a so-called volume control, turning up or down our immune cell actions. Supplementing with vitamin D may reduce your risk of getting the flu as well as the common cold. Probiotics
Probiotics are friendly bacteria, such as bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, that are naturally found in the intestinal tract as well as in fermented foods such as yoghurt. These friendly microbes help protect the body from disease-causing microbes. They also produce substances that keep the lining of the gut healthy, improving immune function and warding off inflammation as stated in The Healthy.

Garlic
Garlic strengthens certain types of immune cells so the body is better at fighting the common cold and flu invaders. It could also help lower the risk of getting sick and may also reduce the severity of your cold and flu symptoms. You can swallow it like medicine or take it at less interactive hours, when the odour will not revolt anybody who wants to come close to you. Vitamin C
Vitamin C has been on and off the immune-system-boosting list because of conflicting research. However, Cook, a doctor says, “Vitamin C supports all aspects of immune function. It’s needed for optimal antibody production and function. Without enough vitamin C, the immune system can be a bit ‘sluggish’ and slower to respond to invading pathogens.” Not only does vitamin C support your immune system when you already have a cold, but there’s also evidence that vitamin C may help the immune system fight infections, which may lead to reduced cold symptoms and cold duration. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.