• NGF secretariat asks staff to join • Govs cancel meeting
• Kwara govt closes mosques, churches, motor-parks over COVID-19
• Oyo to shut its borders, may suspend operation of motorcycles The Director-General of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), Asishana Okauru, and his wife, Ifueko, have embarked on self-isolation after having contacts with several persons that have tested positive for the Coronavirus. In a statement yesterday, Okauru said: “I wish to inform the public that my wife together with my entire household will be proceeding on self-isolation.“We are taking this action following my exposure to Governor Bala Mohammed of Bauchi State who today announced the positive outcome of his test for COVID-19.” He said that all members of staff of the NGF secretariat that were exposed would be observing self-isolation, adding: “We encourage all those who were invited to the NGF meetings for presentations to also do same.” Meanwhile, the meeting of governors scheduled for Wednesday to discuss the health impacts of the Coronavirus on the economies of states has been put off. No new date has been fixed for the meeting. In another development, the Kwara State government has closed down mosques and churches across the state with effect from today, Thursday, March 26, 2020.The Deputy Governor, Mr. Kayode Alabi, gave the directive yesterday while speaking with reporters in Ilorin, the state capital. Alabi said that there should be no movement of commercial vehicles, social gatherings just as he also announced the closing down of all motor parks in the state.Besides, he said that operators of fast foods are however allowed to operate but the buyers are to buy inside take away packs. The Oyo State Government yesterday said that it might likely impose travel restrictions at the state’s entry points.Executive Chairman, Oyo State Road Transport Management Authority (OYRTMA), Dr. Akin Fagbemi, stated this during an interview at COVID-19 Situation Room on a radio station in Ibadan.He said that the state government would only allow essential travels into the state. which would be subjected to thorough health checks.Fagbemi urged transport companies, transport unions and terminal operators to keep a travel manifest for inbound and outbound passengers, especially with verified phone numbers.He also said that operations of commercial motorcycle operators would soon be suspended. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .