A 35-year-old man, Idowu Adejare, has confessed to beheading his friend, James Yankume, over a disagreement. The Guardian gathered that the suspect, an indigene of Ikotu village in Awo, headquarters of Egbedore Local Government Area of Osun State, stormed the house of his friend in the morning while armed with a Dane gun and cutlass, and chased Yankume into a forest in the village. In the forest, Adejare confessed to having inflicted severe machete cuts on the deceased before beheading him, but luck ran out on Adejare as he was later arrested by the police. The Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, confirmed the incident and explained that it happened on February 26, 2020. Kokumo said: “On February 25, there was a misunderstanding between the deceased, James Yankume and Idowu Adejare, both from Ikotu village, Awo. The next day at about 6:00 a.m. the suspect went to the deceased’s house with a cutlass and Dane gun, chased him and the wife out of the house and eventually inflicted several machete cuts on his body. “The suspect also beheaded and dumped the victim inside the forest. Dedicated efforts from Anti-Homicide Detectives led to the recovery of the decomposing head a few days after the incident.” In a chat with the newsmen, the suspect said the deceased attacked him with a cutlass first but he escaped luckily. “Yankume has been after my life for a long time but was not successful. He hit me with a cutlass on my neck when we had the disagreement but it had no effect and I hit him back on the same spot and his head was cut-off.” The police boss said the suspect would be charged to court upon the conclusion of the investigation. Meanwhile, Arimogija community in Ose Local Government Area of Ondo State has been thrown into mourning following the killing of a farmer earlier declared missing in the area. The farmer, Vincent Ejeh, who had been missing for almost a month was discovered buried in a shallow grave on another farmer’s farm in the community. It would be recalled that the farmer had left for his farm on February 13, 2020, never returned home. Speaking on the development, Abu Ejeh, a brother of the deceased, said the body of Vincent Abu was discovered in a shallow grave by some farmers who were working on a farm. While emphasizing that the family demands justice for the gruesome murder of his brother who is the breadwinner of the family, Abu called on security agencies to ensure that the perpetrators of the dastardly act are nabbed and brought to book. He added that his brother was an easy-going man whose death remains a mystery as to why anyone would kill him in such a manner. “We are still confused over what had happened. Our hope was that we would find him since the search for his whereabouts began but with this, we are in a fixed. “His body was found by some youths who were clearing a farm. They saw a grave, which made them raised the alarm before the grave was dug and his body was found. We want the police to get to the root of this matter because my brother was the breadwinner of the family. He had eight children who are all still very young. In another development, residents of Ebrumede, Uvwie local government area of Delta State on Monday woke up to the shocking sight of a beheaded female body near the popular Vita Foam office, along the ever-busy DSC Expressway. It was gathered that the body may have been deposited at night by suspected ritualists. About five poles across the scene are the Ebrumede Police Station. The naked body of the lady was lying in the middle of the highway. There was no blood on the floor to indicate that she may have been a victim of a car crash. A wrapper that had been used to cover the body had been blown away, while a table obstructed the body to prevent incoming vehicles from crushing it. A commercial tricycle rider said the body must have been deposited around midnight. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .