FC Bulmaro Head Coacxh, Gonzalo Dibiasi and members of his technical crew taking the students of St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos, through different aspects of football during the clinic…at the weekend. FC Bulmaro Coach, Gonzalo Dibiasi, an Argentine, has described football as a tool for unity and peace, which if well employed could lead to sustainable national development. Speaking at a free football clinic held for students of St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos, and adjoining schools, Dibiasi, who led FC Bulmaro’s technical crew to the training, said football helps the individual acquire the discipline to make a good living. “The various training sessions are aimed to hone their skills and make them better football players and excellent and selfless team mates. “We want them to cultivate the zeal to contribute meaningfully to the progress of their teams and also make them better leaders of their individual selves,” he said. He revealed that FC Bulmaro was open to schools interested in being part of the project, adding, however, that the first phase of the project focused on Catholic schools in the Archdiocese of Lagos. As part of the exercise, the students played an exhibition match, with teams divided into the World Select and the Nigerian select, comprising players from the various ethnic groups. The World Selected beat the Nigerian side by 3 – 2. Speaking at the event, the school’s administrator, Rev. Fr. Maduabuchi Leo Muoneme, thanked FC Bulmaro for their gesture, adding that building patriotic and well-rounded individuals was one of the reasons the institution was established across the world. He disclosed that the school accepted to host FC Bulmaro’s free clinic to add a unique value to the annual event, arguing that there was no global sporting event like the football World Cup or Olympic Games that culture did not feature prominently. He added: “Watch out for the Edo 2020, and you would be very happy and proud to be a Nigerian. I can assure you that all cultures would be exhibited at the forthcoming National Sports Festival. “In these little things, we strive to groom and raise our children to be human beings, a great and very useful part of the human community,” he explained.Earlier, Head of Blaugrana Group, owners of FC Bulmaro, Leslie Oghomienor, who was the special guest of honour, said the club would continue to seek ways to help create a better future for Nigeria, including helping to educate and train children interested in and willing to develop their skills.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .