Two arrested for serial car theft at Redemption Camp
A burglar has broken into the Ilaro, Ogun State home of Josiah Odunaro, father of Kayode Odunaro, the media aide of Senator Solomon Adeola. Mr. Odunaro, in a post on Facebook yesterday, blamed the incident on the shutdown of activities in the country over the coronavirus pandemic. He said the burglar made away with the phone and wallet of his 97-year-old father, a retired police officer. He wrote: “COVID19 Shutdown Troubles: Unfortunately, a burglar decided to burgle my father of over 97 years old, Chief Josiah Odunaro, the Otun Ajiroba of Ilaro, of his phone and wallet containing his Union and Polaris Bank ATM cards and his retired police officer’s ID.” The aide expressed worry over his aged father having to move around as coronavirus ravages. “He is going round to the banks, police stations and GSM providers to do the needful in this perilous time for his age at Ilaro,” he said. “I leave the burglar to his fate for doing this to an old man at this time. This too shall pass and we shall overcome.” Odunaro did not say if the incident was reported to the police. Meanwhile, two men, 43-year-old Friday Ezi of No. 5, Adesuah Iyamo street, Benin-City and 27-year-old Onyekachi Atama of Akabigbo Street, Ugwuagba, Onitsha, have been arrested by operatives of Ogun State police command for stealing up to seven vehicles belonging to different individuals at Redemption Camp during their various religious programmes. The suspects were arrested following a report by one Titilayo Otitodogbon who reported at Redeemed Camp police station on the first of February 2020 that she parked her Toyota Camry car with registration number LND 636 EZ at Diligent road, Redemption Camp, but on getting back to the place in the evening of the same day, the car has been removed from the park by unknown thief/thieves.  According to the statement, Onyekachi Atama, who is a spare parts dealer at motor parts market in Onitsha confessed that once the vehicles were brought to him by Friday Ezi, he used to balkanize it and sell such vehicles in parts. The Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, who commended the investigative team for a job well-done has directed that the suspects be transferred to anti-car theft section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for proper investigation and prosecution.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .