Prof Babajide Alo (left); Vice Chancellor, Prof Olukayode Amund; Elizade University, Founder, Chief Michael Ade Ojo and his wife, Taiwo; and the Registrar, Mr Omololu Adegbenro; in a group photograph with the students shortly before their departure to Israel for the Erasmus programme in engineering. Eight engineering students of Elizade University (EU), Ilara Mokin, Ondo State have been sent to Israel for a five-month exchange programme at the ORT Braude College of Engineering, Karmiel in preparation for life after school. The students, namely Dorcas Familusi (Mechanical Engineering); Chidubem Okeke  (Electrical/Electronics); Oluwatimilehin Akinlofa (Computer); Abimbola Awotunde (Mechanical); Daniel Adepoju (Electrical/Electronics); Toluwalope Borokinni (Mechanical); Leah Tafida (Electrical/Electronics); and Anyadike Okeychukwu (Mechanical) would spend a semester at the institution and placed on internships with institutions relevant to their fields of study. Addressing journalists at Elizade Plaza, Anthony, Lagos, prior to their departure, founder of the university, Chief Michael Adeojo, said the training is an opportunity for the students to learn how things are done in an advanced country like Israel. “We hope that in return, they would be more informed and able to contribute more to our society. I want to remind you that you’re going as ambassadors. You are representing your school, family and country. You will be watched and records of you would be taken so be careful,” he warned. He urged the students to be just like other great Nigerians that created and broke records in various countries abroad. Adeojo further urged them to ask questions whenever they had difficulty understanding a situation.
He disclosed that the university’s aim is to be among the best in the world. “This is an experiment and I hope you will not disappoint us,” he added. The vice chancellor, Prof. Olukayode Amund described the training as first of its kind saying in its over 42 years of service, this training is first of its kind in the education sector. “This is the first school in Nigeria to send students abroad for a three-month training,” Amund stated. He noted that Nigerian schools practice theoretical impartation hence employers have to train graduates before they can be efficient. The vice chancellor stated that the training would relieve employers from the stress of training employees.
Amund disclosed that plans are underway to expand the foreign practical scale to other faculties in the school. “The scheme is very robust and I believe by the time you return, you would be exposed,” he further stated. “You must make a report on your experiences in Israel; what you learnt and would love our university to adopt,” Amund said. He added that exams would be taken in Israel and results sent to the university.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .