• UNIBEN tasks employees, students on social distancing
• CP orders police to stop unnecessary arrests, detention in Enugu Unusally long queues were noticed yesterday in banks in major towns and cities in Delta State as banks begin implementation of new directives on combating the spread of Coronavirus pandemic. Most banks in Warri and Ughelli had long queues of customers as early as 8am.
At one of the banks on Isoko Road, Ughelli, the queue was so long that it extended into the busy road and partially obstructed vehicular traffic. An official of the bank was sighted taking the temperature of customers with a remote temperature checker, before they were allowed into the hall. The new procedure, he said, may have caused the unusual queues. He said, “We were directed to test all customers going into the banking hall, and that’s what we’re doing. Any customer whose temperature is above 39 will be handed over to the hospital authorities as directed by government. We only allow 15 customers into the bank at a time.” Armed policemen were on standby to ensure that the directive is complied with. Besides, Vice Chancellor of University of Benin (UNIBEN), Professor Lillian Salami, yesterday said the institution has put in place safety measures in the wake of Covid-19 in Edo State just as she advised members of staff to maintain social distances as part of effort to reduce the spread. Speaking in Benin-City while presenting her scorecard and achievements of her 100 days in office, Salami said she has intervened in provision of infrastructure particularly security, water and power supply, which had posed major challenges that triggered students’ unrest and protest on campus. She noted that the institution was doing everything possible to ensure that its employees and students on vacation observe all safety and preventive measures as they carry out their official duties. Salami said adequate provision of hand sanitisers and water dispensers have been made at strategic points and locations on campuses of the institution for use to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the Enugu State Commissioner of Police (CP), Mohammed Abdurrahman has ordered officers of the command to stop unnecessary arrests and detention of suspects. A statement issued by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Daniel Ndukwe, said the CP also asked officers and men of the command to observe personal safety measures. He directed them to stop forthwith any unnecessary arrest and detention of suspects in police Cells within the command while anybody that must be detained should be properly screened, among other measures.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .