 President Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  With the election of President Muhammadu Buhari, Aso Rock, the seat of Nigeria’s presidency, took a different dimension from what it was in the preceding 16 years of the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) administration. One of the remarkable changes in the seat of the Federal Government was the position and influence of the office of the Chief of Staff (CoS). When Mallam Abba Kyari was announced as the Chief of Staff on August 27, 2015, not many people expected that the weight of the change in governance style would revolve around this reticent but meticulous technocrat. Nevertheless, it took the first four years of Buhari’s presidency for the jury to be out and Mallam Kyari has ever since been hailed as one of the most powerful men in any kitchen cabinet, even to the extent that he is perceived as the head of ‘a cabal’ repeatedly accused of running the Buhari administration, for most Nigerians, ‘to ruin’.  Man of few words
KYARI is a product of the University of Cambridge, University of Warwick, Nigerian Law School, International Institute for Management at Laussane, Switzerland and Harvard Business School. From 1988 to 1990, he was Editor with the New Africa Holdings Limited Kaduna. In 1990 he served briefly as Commissioner for Forestry and Animal Resources in Borno State before proceeding to the Board of African International Bank Limited, where he served as secretary from 1990 to 1995. Thereafter the Chief of Staff became the Executive Director, Management Services, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc and was later appointed Managing Director and Chief Executive of the bank.  Taking the flaks
Amid the sneers and jeers, some critics show distaste for his administrative disposition and perceived haughtiness, while some of his admirers insist that Kyari comes across as possessing affable disposition. But insiders say the CoS is not given to razzamatazz, but more inclined to keep a low profile in carrying out his duties as ethically and professionally as possible, and without necessarily rocking the boat. This estimation contrasts and sounds quite contrary to the belief in some quarters that the CoS is inebriated with the vodka of power.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .