A married man is worried coronavirus is going to expose his affair | Getty Images-iStockphoto When Sam Smith sang “How Do You Sleep” questioning a lying partner on how they sleep with “all that shame and danger…all that fear and pressure,” we are sure many did not get his message. An unidentified patient may just know what this means after he tested positive to the novel coronavirus that is currently rocking the world. The man who is reported to be in his late 30s is said to be “in a blind panic” because he contracted the virus during a secret trip to Italy with his mistress. Described as  “well-heeled and with a high-flying job,” he reportedly told his wife he was away on a business trip within the UK. According to a report by The Sun he disclosed to public health coordinators in the north of England the truth about how he picked up the virus. A source told the news outlet that when the man returned home, he began showing symptoms of the deadly bug, and tests confirmed that he was in fact infected. “This patient is the talk of public health officials,” a source with knowledge of the situation told the outlet. “His case would be funny if it wasn’t quite so serious.” “The man confessed [to doctors] what he’d been up to in Italy, and that his wife has no idea,” the source added. “She thinks he just picked up the disease on his business trip away.” He has refused to name his mistress but due to his condition, his wife is currently self-isolating at their lavish home. Speaking to The Sun, the source said: “This patient is the talk of public health officials. “His case would be funny if it wasn’t quite so serious. “Despite his infection, he is expected to survive the outbreak, unlike his extra-marital relationship. “He thought he had the perfect alibi to carry out his affair but hadn’t reckoned on the coronavirus meltdown. The patient is just relieved he got home before flights were cancelled – that would have taken some explaining.” They added: “He’s in a blind panic, but more about his adultery being exposed rather than his health.” Italy is battling the largest coronavirus outbreak outside Asia — with 31,506 total cases and 2,503 deaths reported by Tuesday, officials announced.