Wrinkles, also known as rhytides, are folds in your skin. As you age, your skin produces less of the proteins collagen and elastin; this makes your skin thinner and less resistant to damage. As we grow older, the natural ageing process causes everyone to develop wrinkles, especially on parts of our body that are exposed to the sun, like the face, neck, hands, and forearms. Keep reading on how you can have a wrinkle-free skin according to Healthline. A wrinkle free woman | Photo – Olay Wear sunscreen Considering wrinkles is aided by environmental factors, you can protect yourself from the harsh rays of the sun by wearing sunscreen.  A 2013 study in the Annals of Internal Medicine found that sunscreen also helped delay the signs of ageing. Reduce your sugar intake
Sugar in your body sets off a process called glycation, and advanced glycation end products (called AGEs) are no good for your skin. AGEs break down the collagen in your body and, over time, can make you look older. Limiting your intake of sugar and oil-rich foods will help your face retain its youthful shape. Quit smoking
Smoking is bad for your health in many ways. One fascinating study compared the faces of 79 pairs of identical twins in which one had a smoking habit and the other one didn’t. The striking differences in their ages made it clear that smoking does affect the condition of the skin on your face. Use coconut oil
Coconut oil is a natural emollient. What this means is that when you apply it to your skin, it fills in the gaps in your epidermis and makes your skin feel smooth. Showing your skin some love with coconut oil doesn’t just make it smoother, it also helps skin retain moisture, which makes your face appear fuller. Switch up your sleep position The body needs a good amount of sleep but did you know that some wrinkling on your face can actually be caused by the position that you sleep in? It is known as “compression,” and it’s caused by your face pressing against the pillow in the same way every night. Over time, this compression leaves your skin weaker in some places than others, and a wrinkle forms. You can prevent or slow down compression wrinkles by sleeping on your back. Wash your face regularly Three to five minutes every night to wash your face does your skin a lot of good than you would think. Avoid vigorously scrubbing your face. Use a water-based wipe to cleanse your face before you go to sleep, and finish your wash with some cold water splashed across your skin. Up your antioxidants Eating a diet rich in blueberries, kidney beans, grapes, kale, and spinach will help you get healthy skin “from the inside out” and could reduce the signs of premature aging.