Ikpeazu asks state tertiary institutions to shut down, commence online teaching
Kano State government has directed immediate closure of all Quranic and Islamiyya centres in the state as part of measures to curtail the spread of Coronavirus. The state government had earlier directed suspension of academic activities in public and private primary and secondary schools, besides a similar directive issued to all state owned tertiary institutions. Giving the directive while speaking with journalists, Chairman of Kano State Quranic, Islamiyya and Tsangaya schools’ Board, Sheik Gwani Yahuza Gwani Dan Zarga, said the decision was in line with North West governors agreement to close schools and avoid gathering of people that could lead to spread of the disease among pupils. He said, “All Quranic, Islamiyya and Tsangaya schools are expected to be shut from Monday, March 23, 2020 as directed by the state government. Kano State has 12 Tsangaya model schools and we have directed all to close not to prevent learning, but to safeguard the pupils against Covid-19. He appealed to religious leaders and other community stakeholders for understanding and further intensify prayers to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, management of the Bayero University, Kano (BUK) has debunked the rumours of a suspected case of Coronavirus on campus. A statement by BUK Secretary, Information and Publication, Lamara Garba, declared that there was no such case on any campuses of the university, urging members of the public to disregard the rumour. Meanwhile, Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has directed tertiary institutions in the state going on vacation occasioned by Covid-19 to commence online teaching and tutorials and use online platforms to interact with their students. He announced the release N10m to each of the institutions for the online teaching. Addressing journalists on the virus, he urged residents of the state to abide by the preventive precautions being prescribed by health professionals and the World Health Organisation (WHO) and imbibe all dictates of good hygiene. Commenting on the reported cure for Coronavirus, which Professor Madubuike Ezeibe claimed to have invented, Ikpeazu expressed hope that if subjected to formal testing, its efficacy may be ascertained. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .