The University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan yesterday refuted claims that a patient who tested positive for Covid-19 has been admitted at the hospital. Chief Medical Director (CMD) of UCH, Professor Jesse Otegbayo, stated this at a media briefing in the wake of Coronavirus pandemic at the hospital in Ibadan. He explained that there was a suspected case to Covid-19 infection who is currently self-isolating and whose blood sample has been sent for test, urging clinically stable patients to remain at home and resume regular visits after the pandemic had subsided. He said anyone with the symptoms of the virus such as running nose, sore throat, cough and fever should immediately dial 08131733982, 08131733694 as a member of the committee has been inaugurated to take care of the outbreak of the pandemic. Besides, the Oyo State Government yesterday said there was no confirmed case of Coronavirus in the state until the result of the test sent to Lagos confirms otherwise. Addressing journalists at the press centre in the Governor’s Office, Ibadan, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello, explained that the suspected case has not been confirmed. “At this point, the Ministry of Health wishes to inform members of the public that despite the report of several cases of Coronavirus in the country, the ministry hereby wishes to restate its commitment to ensuring a disease-free state. “This is particularly important because these cases have been in neighboring states. The Oyo State Ministry of Health would like to reassure the public that our surveillance system has been activated and contact tracing is on going. “For instance, those of the confirmed cases in Ekiti State, passed through Ibadan and the contact tracing is ongoing. As of today, we have a case of an individual who just returned from the UK, but that individual is in self-isolation. “Some tests have been carried out on samples collected from that case and have been sent to the National Reference Laboratory (LUTH). The results are being expected tomorrow,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .