Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde at the weekend said that his administration would continue to maintain cordial relationship with the officers and men of the Nigerian Army to keep the state safe and secure. Makinde, who spoke at a reception organised in his honour by the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Anthony Bamidele Omozoje, at the Tiger’s Den, Adekunle Fajuyi Cantonment, Odogbo, Ibadan, added that army officers had saved him from imminent death on at least two occasions. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said that Makinde thanked the military for its dedication to the peace and security of Oyo State. “I want to also specially thank the officers for the good work that they are doing to keep us safe and secure. To some people, it may be something new but to me, it is not. I have been saved twice from imminent death by the officers of this division. “The first experience was in 2007 when I was contesting to go to the Senate. On the day of election, my house was invaded by mobile policemen but I was rescued by the officers and was taken to Mokola Barracks where I stayed throughout the election. I did not even vote on the day of election, but I was happy that I came back unhurt due to the efforts of the officers of this 2 Division. “Also, in 2015 when I was contesting to be the governor of this state, I was going to campaign in front of the family house of my opponent. Violence erupted but the officers of this division took charge and I was rescued unhurt. So, if I fast-track that to Operation Burst, I am glad to say that anytime we have them going out for an operation, we sleep peacefully because we know they will do the necessary things.” He said that the new security architecture in the state would pave way for Operation Burst to cover all the other zones within the state. Omozoje thanked the governor for his continuous support for the division and also conveyed the goodwill message of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen Tukur Yusufu Buratai, to him. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .