The deposed Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II arrived Lagos at 11:35 pm, Friday night. PHOTO: NAN I Don’t Wish To Return To Kano As A Monarch —Sanusi
There are strong indications that the dethronement of former Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi 11, his banishment and immediate replacement with Aminu Ado Bayero by Kano State governor, Umar Ganduje may have far-reaching implications for Northern elites and the traditionalists in Kano. Pundits have linked Sanusi’s ordeal to the political power play in Kano, and the presidential and governorship election in 2023. Indeed, the incumbent governor, who struggled to secure re-election in 2019, following Sanusi’s favourable disposition towards the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), might have decided to get rid of the former emir to pave way for whoever will succeed him (Ganduje), and to also retain Kano for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), among other reasons. But having secured his freedom through a Federal High Court’s pronouncement, which ordered his immediate release, the embattled emir has indicated that his dethronement was not properly carried out. It was, however, interesting how Kaduna State governor, Nasir El-Rufai immediately identified with Sanusi, against his fellow APC counterpart, Ganduje, by appointing the former emir as a member of Kadipa Board and Chancellor of Kaduna State University. El-Rufai’s action was despite the negative role Sanusi played against Ganduje and APC in the 2019 guber election, which nearly cost the incumbent’s re-election. This is seen as partly why the governor, with alleged approval by the Presidency, went ahead to depose and banish Sanusi, despite the mediation of a committee, led by former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar. The development may also have subtle effects on the internal fighting in APC, as it is now obvious that Ganduje, who is sympathetic to the embattled National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, will further strain the relationship with El-Rufai, who is among the governors pushing for Oshiomhole’s removal. A party source said the Sanusi saga might further create a gulf among party members loyal to Kaduna and Kano States governors. A source told The Guardian that Sanusi initially agreed to move fråom Kano to Awe in Nassarawa, perhaps on the alleged assurance from El-Rufai and others that necessary legal arrangements would be made to secure his freedom. “That must have informed El-Rufai’s prompt appointment of Sanusi in two capacities, following his the deposition. It would be recalled that El-Rufai was among the first dignitaries to pay homage to Sanusi in Awe. No sooner had the court pronounced his freedom, than El-Rufai started making arrangements for Sanusi’s relocation to Lagos,” the source said. But why Lagos and not Kaduna or Abuja? The Guardian learned that Lagos is much safer for the former emir than any northern state. This is aside the fact that Sanusi spent his childhood in Lagos and most of his friends are in Lagos. The source added that it might be easy for Sanusi to continue to play his radical role from Lagos than in the North for safety reasons, pending when 2023 politicking will begin. The Guardian learned that Ganduje is preparing ground for a retaliation through the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) if possible, to nail Sanusi for corruption, based on alleged financial discrepancies under his emirate. Meanwhile, the dethroned Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II has expressed confidence of getting justice, if he decides to challenge his ceremonial removal from the royal seat. In a trending video online, he however, said he doesn’t wish to return to the state as a monarch. The footage, according to report, was recorded on Friday at Awe in Nasarawa State after the court ruling that freed him from detention. “I’ve done what I could in six years. I’m moving on. The truth is that I don’t want to go back. It is the easiest thing in the world to go to court. Fair hearing…High Court ruling, just like today. Did you query him? Did you ask him to defend himself? No. We should go on with the new phase in life,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .