We all watch films for different reasons; some solely for the purpose of entertainment, others to watch film as a means of escape. A good film takes you places. It allows you to leave your body and immerse yourself in a world where different rules apply, different things are possible, different choices can be made and where everything is different. Below are some real-life locations of some very popular films: Alnwick Castle [Hogwarts – Harry Potter] Hogwarts – Alnwick-castles – TES Welcome to Hogwarts! The famous school of witchcraft and wizardry. Hogwarts in real life is Alnwick castle, a castle and country house in Alnwick in the English county of Northumberland. An increase in public interest in the castle was generated by its use as a stand-in for the exterior and interior of Hogwarts in the Harry Potter films. Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone filmed on location at Alnwick Castle in autumn 2000. The following year, Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (the second film in the series) used Alnwick Castle for shooting. The Outer Bailey is recognisable as the area where Harry and his fellow students were taught on how to fly broomsticks with Madam Hooch.  It is also where Harry learned the rules of the wizarding sport Quidditch. New Zealand [Lord Of The Rings / The Hobbit] Hobbit-Holes-in-Hobbiton-| CREDIT-Gayatri-Bhaumik1 The Lord of the Rings movie trilogy was filmed entirely in New Zealand. Thanks to the immense success of both trilogies, hordes of tourists visit New Zealand to experience the magic, charm and striking beauty of the middle-earth. In the year ending March 2015, more than 80,000 visitors cited Jackson’s The Hobbit trilogy as a factor in choosing New Zealand as their holiday destination according to Tourism New Zealand. Nearly 200 locations throughout New Zealand were used in both trilogies, with the Hobbiton location, now a permanent movie set in Waikato, being New Zealand’s fastest-growing tourist attraction. Joker Stairs [Joker] Joker Stairs | Wired The Joker Stairs are a set of steep stairs connecting Shakespeare and Anderson Avenues at West 167th Street in the Highbridge section of the Bronx, New York City. Located near the 167th Street station on the New York City Subway’s 4 train Both the stairs and Arthur’s dance have become Internet sensations. Many visitors reenact the scene from the film, sometimes in Joker attire Dubrovnik, Croatia [Game Of Thrones] Kings Landing – Dubvronik – travelchannel-gettyimages Welcome to King’s Landing, the capital of Westeros. Croatia is where much of the Daenerys and Kings Landing storyline takes place. In real life, King’s Landing is known as Dubrovnik, a city in southern Croatia nested on the shore of the Adriatic Sea. Durbovnik’s stone walls, dramatic cliffs and amazing views make it the perfect seat for the king(s) of Westeros. Grjótagjá, Iceland [Game Of Thrones] Grjótagjá – Iceland – Pinterest Grjótagjá is a small lava cave and thermal spring in northern Iceland. The beautiful lake was featured in Game of Thrones season three when Jon Snow and his wildling lover, Ygritte took a dip in the lake. Visitors can climb down the icy passageway and swim in the lake below, though it’s best to go early if you want to avoid the crowds. Petra, Jordan [Indiana Jones] Petra – National Geographic Petra is originally known to its inhabitants as Raqmu, is a historical and archaeological city in southern Jordan. Petra lies around Jabal Al-Madbah in a basin surrounded by mountains which form the eastern of the Arabah valley that runs from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Aqaba. The area around Petra has been inhabited as early as 7,000 BC. Petra was featured in the third Indiana Jones film. Today, more than 500,000 people visit annually. The site appeared in films such as: Arabian Nights, Passion in the Desert, Mortal Kombat: Annihilation, Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger, The Mummy Returns, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.