Earlier in the month of March, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) announced that an asteroid will fly over the earth. This asteroid was referred to as large and potentially hazardous. The asteroid called 2012 XA133 was set to pass Earth on Thursday, March 26 [March 27 in Nigeria] at a speed of 53,000mph. However, with a note of assurance, NASA said that the Earth will not be affected. “As they orbit the Sun, NEOs [Near Earth Object] can occasionally approach close to Earth. “Note that a ‘close’ passage astronomically can be very far away in human terms: millions or even tens of millions of kilometres.” However, Nigerians located in Akure were alert the early hours of this morning after a loud noise that shook the whole town was heard in Akure, destroying some buildings located in the Eleyowo community in the town. Eleyowo located a kilometre away from the Akure airport, saw a large number of buildings including churches and a school affected by the explosion. Akure people will disappoint you Ignore the voice but look at extent of  the damage pic.twitter.com/DevxV2VkQl — ISÉ (@SEGUN_WORKS) March 28, 2020  Amidst speculations on what the noise is, some have reported that it was a truck carrying explosives that exploded, while some have raised questions about the asteroid. Was it an asteroid? Was it an explosion? Different questions have been posed and below are some reactions: My heart goes out to the people in Akure. Please stay safe, things are getting out of hands and in my own opinion, that was clearly a bomb blast. We are not secured anymore, from Lagos now it’s Akure only God knows what happens next — DJ Neptune #NoBody (@deejayneptune) March 28, 2020  Woke up this morning to the news of a loud noise being heard by people in akure, Then some minutes later these pictures surfaced, showing how their road was affected tremendously
…..
Meanwhile, a similar incident was said to have occurred in the United states last night pic.twitter.com/7kLI5vOTaw — Volqx Assistant • (@volqx__) March 28, 2020  The Actual Story of what happened in Akure. An unknown truck conveying explosives caught fire around 1:00am and exploded along Akure-Owo Road and the vehicle is currently buried in the sand. More details soon. pic.twitter.com/v3REZCZMBr — Ondo First Born® (@OndoFirstBorn) March 28, 2020  What happened in Akure is likely to be an asteroid. Nigerian astronomers cannot say anything because they are now selling cement. pic.twitter.com/tcsGhDRQvg — CHESKY (@tweetsofchesky) March 28, 2020  What would make a hole in the earth this deep? Asteroid, Meteorite or thunderstorm? And why Akure? pic.twitter.com/KOV0ASUPvP — Laolao (@itz_laolao) March 28, 2020  Remember NASA said some asteroid would be hitting earth anytime soon. I guess a debris hit this part of Akure causing this crater pic.twitter.com/vqAGhR6Jsf — Meez™ (@Meez_Tweets) March 28, 2020  News of bomb   explosions in Akure ! Please who can confirm that!? If confirmed, then indeed, we are under attack or just distraction from asking for Buhari’s where about !! #BuhariResign — Olushola Olufolabi (@olushola_shola) March 28, 2020  Aliens don land for Akure… Behold the rebirth of Superman. He’s going to be a black man this time; thanks to the meteor, NASA should comman check ASAP pic.twitter.com/gkgyR7LmRN — Wizimatic Movies (@iam_wizimatic) March 28, 2020  We’re still abit confused here in Akure, whether is is a bomb explosion or an Asteroid hit… pic.twitter.com/iyFOgmuIf6 — Joshua Aribasoye (@Joshwildlife) March 28, 2020  No accurate information about what resulted in the loud thunder-like sound in Akure, Ondo state. although NASA warned that an asteroid will safely swing past Earth @ 30,000MPH. We await an official statement from the Government. pic.twitter.com/ZT7X2OkP7H — Daddy AZMA (OMOKHUDU) (@MisterRedefined) March 28, 2020  The Ondo State is yet to give a formal report on the issue