As part of its precautionary measure against the pandemic, the Abia Government says plans are underway to procure Coronavirus (COVID-19) Testing Kits. John Okiyi-Kalu, the Commissioner for Information, Abia, made the disclosure on Monday while briefing newsmen on the preparedness of the state against the disease in Umuahia. He said that it was disheartening that Nigeria had “three testing centres for the entire nation,” adding that this informed the decision of Abia government to get testing kits to address the current situation. According to him, “the state government has directed that schools should be closed on March 30. “The ministry of education has been directed to use this period to teach school children how to protect themselves. “We are providing locally-made water dispensers for each classroom in schools, while teachers will be given hand sanitisers. “We are actively working on providing measures for market places. We encourage traders to have locally-made water dispensers for hand washing at the entrance of their shops.” Okiyi-Kalu said that the state government had a trained team of first responders equipped to handle possible COVID-19 patients. He added that the state government had four functional mobile clinics and seven fully equipped ambulances that would be used to convey COVID-19  patients to isolation centres. Okiyi-Kalu said that the state government was taking exigent steps to prevent the outbreak of the disease in the state, and urged the people of Abia to be calm. Similarly, in an interview, Dr Ijeoma Nduka, the Chief Executive of Hospitals Management Board(HMB), said that the Board had commenced School Health Services to enlightenment school children on COVID-19. “We know the thought of the outbreak of COVID-19  must have sent out a lot of panics. We are ready to take this programme to all the schools in Abia. “We decided to go out there to teach school children and their teachers about COVID-19 and how to protect themselves against the disease to prevent any possible outbreak,’’ Nduka said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .