 Everton’s Italian head coach Carlo Ancelotti (L) and Manchester United’s Norwegian manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer watches his players from the touchline during the English Premier League football match between Everton and Manchester United at Goodison Park in Manchester United, north west England on March 1, 2020. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  Goalkeeping errors by both United’s David De Gea and Everton’s Jordan Pickford were central to the outcome at Goodison Park. But Everton thought they had won the game in stoppage time when a shot from Dominic Calvert-Lewin, who had opened the scoring, deflected off United’s Harry Maguire and into the net. The goal, however, was ruled out by the video assistant referee with the offside Gylfi Sigurdsson, lying in the path of De Gea, deemed to have obstructed the view of the keeper. Veteran Italian manager Ancelotti was as unhappy as the home crowd on Merseyside, with the Toffees boss sent off after approaching referee Chris Kavanagh on the field. The draw saw fifth-placed United miss the chance to cut the gap to Chelsea in fourth to a single point in the Premier League table as Everton stayed in 11th position. Anthony Martial returned to the United line-up in one of five changes to the side made by manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer following the Europa League victory over Club Brugge in midweek. Everton’s Italian head coach Carlo Ancelotti (C) remonstrates with Referee Chris Kavanagh (unseen) before being shown a red card during the English Premier League football match between Everton and Manchester United at Goodison Park in Manchester United, north west England on March 1, 2020. (Photo by Paul ELLIS / AFP)  It took Everton just three minutes to break the deadlock with a bizarre goal that delighted the Goodison Park faithful. There seemed little danger as De Gea dwelt on a clearance. But his eventual kick downfield was blocked by the charging Calvert-Lewin, with the rebound flying into the unguarded United net. De Gea did make amends in part by denying Calvert-Lewin a second goal by tipping a shot wide while, at the other end of the pitch, Nemanja Matic hit the crossbar as United sought an equaliser. Another goalkeeping error helped United draw level in the 31st minute when England number one Pickford, with national manager Gareth Southgate watching from the stands, failed to cover Bruno Fernandes’ speculative, if well-struck, effort from long range. Everton midfielder Sigurdsson went close to making it 2-1 to the Toffees early in the second half. United’s Victor Lindelof carelessly gave away a free-kick on the edge of the box and Sigurdsson saw his curling strike come back off the post, with Richarlison unable to get the rebound on target as he followed up. Pickford, as De Gea had done earlier in the game, then atoned for a costly mistake to keep his side in the match. In the closing moments of normal time, he blocked Fernandes’ initial shot and then acrobatically dashed across his goal to keep out Odion Ighalo’s follow-up.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .