Enugu Rangers’ Ibrahim Olawoyin being challenged by Francis Odinaka and Imo Obot of Dakkada FC during a recent NPFL game. Dimeji Lawal believes monitoring the medical conditions of players will curb the rampant drug abuse in the league. PHOTO: LMC. Former Nigerian international, Dimeji Lawal has advised the League Management Company (LMC) and club owners to conduct random medical tests on Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) players after every league game, as a means of eradicating hard drugs and other illicit substances from the league. Lawal said efforts at revamping medical facilities in all league venues should include taking care of the total wellbeing of every player, stressing that continuous routine checks would help reduce sudden deaths and other fatalities on the pitch. He counseled that players’ health status should be top priority of every club management as the performance of a player while in action depends on his physical condition. “The only way to curtail drug and other substances abuse among players is through random testing before and after every NPFL game. “The excuse brandished by some people that some players take drugs because they play games week in week out, sometimes twice a week and also travel long distance for league games is not tenable. “A player that trains everyday and is free from any health issue will perform well. Are you saying because a teacher or banker wakes up every morning to go to work, that means the stress will make him take drugs? It does not work that way. “As the LOC is putting things in place to revamp medical facilities at league venues, they should also focus on the health status of every registered league player. This is the way it is done in Europe. “The procedure will help curtail casualties in NPFL games,” he said. He also added that measures should be put in place to also help NPFL teams arrive league venues without facing challenges of long journey by road.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .