• Incumbent did not jettison any arrangement, says Gbadamosi The victory of Governor Seyi Makinde in the 2019 gubernatorial election in Oyo State was initially assumed to have been made possible based on the agreement the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had with other parties until different sides of the story began to surface, especially when the booties of war were to be shared among stakeholders.
   
Makinde was said to have dusted the candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr. Adebayo Adelabu, because of the staunch support and collaborations of some personalities that fell out with his predecessor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. What is now creating rancour is how Makinde is managing the interest of some of these allies that brought him to power barely 10 months into his administration.  He stressed: “There is nothing of such between Makinde and me. Of course, I worked assiduously for him to emerge and not being in government now does not mean he has dumped anybody or me. Makinde is now a political role model for politicians in the state, especially the ones in government because he is keen on delivering the dividends of democracy to the people of Oyo.”  “The governor is trying his best to resolve this issue with them,” he said. “You will agree with me that it is not easy to conclude on resolving an issue out of court with the chairmen. But look at their disposition towards him. What the governor did was righting the wrong of the last administration. Ajimobi’s administration erred ab initio by violating a court order to conduct the said election into the councils thereby rendering the Constitution of ALGON in Oyo null and void. “For me, the chairmen should resolve the issue with the governor and let us move Oyo State forward.”  “In the last nine months, he has made tremendous improvement in developmental sectors in areas like education, health, security, infrastructure, workers/pensioners’ welfare, employment, Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) improvement, agriculture, and others”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .