• Police urge concerted efforts to stem virus in Oyo
• Plan to enforce Makinde’s order on social gatherings Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has assured the people of the state that the current economic challenges occasioned by the outbreak of Coronavirus in the country would not stop salary payment and completion of legacy projects in the state. Fayemi gave the assurance at the Civic Centre Complex in Ado-Ekiti during an inspection of some building and road projects in the state. The governor, who also inspected facilities at the state’s isolation centre in Ado-Ekiti where he interacted with some health workers on duty, said the enormous pressure on the finances of the state would not cause projects to be abandoned as stipulated in the state’s transition law. He said that his administration in the face of the current economic situation would maintain recurrent expenditure, particularly in relation to salaries of workers, which he said, remained a top priority. In another vein, the Oyo State Police Command yesterday called for concerted efforts from the residents of the state on the need to stay Coronavirus-free by complying with the orders of the state government on social gatherings.
[a]d
In a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan by the Command’s Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, the Commissioner of Police (CP), Mr. Shina Olukolu, said the command would embark on enforcement of orders of the state concerning social gatherings. The statement read in part: “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Police Command, wishes to reiterate that the threat of COVID-19 on the societal cohesion is real and therefore, wishes to appeal to all members of the public for all hands to be on deck and act in accordance with the directives, advice and instructions of both the police leadership and the political leadership in Oyo State, the Inspector-General of Police and Governor of Oyo State respectively. “We are all aware of the seriousness of the current developments in all aspects of human endeavour, particularly the social-economic lifestyles of our people. Hence, the advice on the closure of certain economic, religious, social and educational institutions needs to be obeyed without waiting for unnecessary use of force or promptings from any security agencies.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .