Akwa Ibom government has proscribed 51 cult groups and societies in primary and secondary schools across the state. The decision might not be unconnected with the recent violence in institutions of learning in parts of the capital. The latest proscription is addition to the 14 outlawed in 2018. Ewet Technical College, Uyo metropolis had in recent times witnessed high-scale cult activities, leading to wanton destruction of school property and eventual closure of the institution by the state government. The proscription order, titled ‘Cultism and Other Violent Behaviour (Prohibition) Order’ and signed yesterday ijn the capital city by Governor Udom Emmanuel, replaced ‘The Cultism and Other Violent Behaviour [Prohibition) Order of 2018’ and came into effect on the March 16, 2020. He said: “In addition to the cults, societies and groups listed under sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph, the following cults, groups or societies in secondary and primary schools in Akwa Ibom State are hereby declared illegal and forthwith proscribed: “The Luttox; Red Skins; St. Stephens; Dewell; Sept 11 Group; Secret Sons of Satan; King Cobra; J.V (Junior Vikings); Bats; Predators; Black Ladies; Black Cross; Scavengers; Skylolo; Sons of Nights; Blood Brotherhood; Junior Buccaneers; White Angels; and Musket. “In furtherance to sub-paragraph (1) and (2) of this paragraph and in addition to the cults, societies and groups listed therein, the under listed cults, societies and groups whether outside or within tertiary institutions, secondary or primary schools are also hereby prohibited.” The governor continued: “Daughters of Queen Amina; Lion; Leo Lion; Neo Black Movement of Africa; Temple of Eden; Daughters of Jezebel; Amazon; Black Brazier; Barracudas; Black Beret; The Dragon; Red devil; Blood Suckers; Scorpion; Black Eye; Eiye; Sons of Nights; White Angels; Yellow Ribbon and Python. “Others include Black Sword; Supreme Dread Lock; Black Heart; Black Dagger; White Brothers; High Mafia; Street Mafia; Family Mafia; Supreme Red Skin; Italian Mafia; Separate Brothers Confraternity and Clansmen.” According to the order, “the activities of all cults, societies or groups mentioned in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Order are hereby prohibited and defaulters shall be prosecuted in accordance with the Cultism, Offensive Weapons and Violent Behaviour (Prohibition) Law, 2004, or any other enabling law in that regard.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .