Woman Crying | Image: Incredible Snaps When we cry, the tears that form in our eyes are just as important as the sight our eyes provide. Each teardrop is filled with enzymes required for a healthy eye. Tears aren’t just mere liquid, the layer of liquid that makeup tears are a compound of elements that helps to keep the eyes healthy and functional. The elements in tears include oily lipids, metabolites, hormones, electrolytes and enzymes. According to medical reports, our eyes pick up dirt and other particles from the dust in the atmosphere. Our eyes also pick particles from ointments and other substances we apply on the eyes or close to the eyes area. Specifically, ladies, that apply makeup to the eyes, such as; eyeliners, eye shadows, eye concealers and eyelashes.
With study, it has been deduced that the healthy level of our eyes often depends on how often our eyes secrete tears. It is also dependable on the situation that triggers the tears. Tears can be induced as a result of our emotions or reflexes. Either way, the tears help to clean the eyes of dirt and give a clearer vision. Types of Tears Emotional Tears: The human body is triggered to express what we feel, as soon as the feeling sets in. The brain sends a message to our tear glands to secrete tears when we feel a certain type of emotion, the tear glands are also triggered when we feel physical pains. So when we feel a certain type of emotion such as; happiness, laughter and anger we laugh or cry and possibly do both at the same time. Those tears that spill out in response to sadness, joy or fear is called “emotional tears”. Reflex Tears: Reflex tears form whenever foreign objects come in contact with the eye. In an attempt to get rid of the object, the eye secrets moisture that flows as tears. More so, people try to suppress the urge to cry because it is viewed as a show of weakness. In suppressing tears as science suggests, could be detrimental to our health. Crying is therapeutic to the human state of mind, because it; Induces a Soothing Effect
Crying helps to regulate our emotions and reduce distress. A medical study of 2014 shows that crying activates the parasympathetic nervous system, which helps to relax the body. Relieves Pain
Shedding emotional tears help to relief not just emotions pains but also physical pains. Study shows that crying emotional tears release oxytocin and endorphins. These elements when released in the body system help to ease emotional and physical pain, thereby making the body system feel good. Aids Sleeping
A 2016 medical research indicates that crying can help babies to sleep better. although, it is still yet to be confirmed if it is applicable to the system of adults. However, it follows in line that the soothing,mood-enhancing and pain relief effect that comes from crying can help to make sleeping easy. Wash Away Irritants/Dirt
Irritants could be smoke, dust, strands of hair or eyelashes and more. The tears come running from the eyes to protect the eyes. The liquid helps to rinse out the irritants disturbing the eye. Without tears, these irritants could clog to the eyes and prove a great threat to our eye vision. With these listed benefits of tears, it is safe to say that crying is healthy to the life of every human. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.