Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State yesterday signed the state Security Network Agency Bill 2020, code-named Amotekun Corps, into law following its submission by the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin. The House had on March 3, 2020 passed the bill into law after a public hearing on the matter. Makinde signed the bill into law at the Executive Council Chamber, Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. The governor, while signing the bill in the presence of the Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan; Chief of Staff, Chief Bisi Ilaka; Head of Service, Mrs. Ololade Agboola; Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Olubamwo Adeosun; Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Oyewo Oyewole; other members of the State Executive Council; Speaker of the House of Assembly; Deputy Speaker, Abiodun Fadeyi; Clerk of the House and others, warned criminally-minded people to steer clear of the state and the region, saying Amotekun Corps members would get them. The governor said: “History has been made because Amotekun law is in force in Oyo State. It has been a long and tedious journey. It started as far as July last year. In reality, things don’t happen overnight. You have to plan, engage, seek alignment and execute. This is exactly what has happened here. “The governors of South-West geo-political zone went and met with the stakeholders. We have to secure our people. This is not a replacement for the existing traditional security agencies. We have to secure our people; it is to complement the efforts of federal security agencies. We need to create a safe and sane environment at the state and local council levels. “We are providing a safe and secure environment. So, investors should come and we guarantee decent returns on their investment. “Amotekun has come to stay. You don’t have to be afraid if you are not criminally-minded. Join hands with us to have a secure environment. It is time to tell the criminally-minded ones to please stay away from Oyo and stay away from South-West, because if you don’t, Amotekun will get you.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .