Ogun State Government yesterday confirmed a new case of Coronavirus, which brings the number of patients so far recorded in the state to three. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, who disclosed this while speaking with journalists in Abeokuta, said the 62-year-old new male patient returned to Nigeria from the United Kingdom (UK) last week Tuesday. Coker said the patient subjected himself to self-isolation before he was tested positive to COVID-19. She disclosed that 32 contacts, including 28 healthcare givers and four family members, had been identified in connection with the COVID-19 patient. Meanwhile, the state government yesterday announced the commencement of electronic visual learning classes for primary and secondary school pupils in the state. The classes, “OgunDigiClass,” according to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dapo Abiodun, Mr. Kunle Somorin, in Abeokuta, would be aired on the state-owned television station, OGTV. The government said that the electronic visual school would begin from Tuesday, March 24, 2020. Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary, Secondary and Technical Education, Mrs. Ronke Soyombo, who said that the visual learning would run on OGTV Channel 25, 260 on DSTV and 100 on GoTV, disclosed that classes for primary school pupils would start from 9.00 a.m. to 11.00 a.m. daily while secondary school students would have their classes between 1.00 p.m. and 2:00 p.m. daily, adding: “Students who do not have the opportunity to be part of the televised sessions, could also to visit www.ogundigiclass.ng to watch the recorded version of the classes. In another development, the management of First Technical University, Ibadan, Oyo State, yesterday announced the closure of the institution with effect from Monday, March 23, 2020, till after Easter break in April 2020. A statement signed by the Registrar of the university, Olayinka Balogun, stated that the closure was in compliance with the government’s directive. The management, however, said lectures would continue via the institution’s online platforms. Meanwhile, both members of staff and students of the university have been advised to adhere strictly to social distancing and other preventive, precautionary and safety measures to curtail further spread of the virus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .