Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on Thursday directed the shutdown of Asaba Airport to traffic for two weeks, starting from 6 p.m. on Friday. Okowa, who gave the directive in his third statewide broadcast on coronavirus pandemic on Thursday, also ordered the closure of the land borders to the state from 6 p.m. on March 29. “This is the third time I am addressing you on coronavirus pandemic. “As promised, we have continued to monitor and review developments concerning this pandemic on a daily if not hourly basis. “Although there has been no confirmed case in Delta, we deem it fit to take further measures to avert any outbreak or contain its spread if it occurs. “Consequently, after a meeting with the Central Committee on Managing and Containing Coronavirus Pandemic headed by me, several far-reaching decisions were reached. “I hereby order as follows: Asaba Airport is to close to traffic effective from Friday, March 27, 2020 by 6 p.m. “All land borders into and out of Delta are to be shut effective 6 a.m., Sunday, March 29, 2020. “All business malls, supermarkets, markets and shops are to close from Wednesday, April 1, 2020. “All residents in the state are to stay at home from Wednesday, April 1, while food sellers are to conduct their businesses within the precinct of their homes and are required to strictly adhere to the social distancing rules.” He gave the assurance that there would be increased security presence on the streets and land borders to ensure strict compliance with the directives. The governor said the restrictions would be for two weeks in the first instance. Okowa said the restrictions would not apply to persons providing essential services, including security, health care, water supply, fire prevention, power supply, media coverage and telecommunications. The governor directed media and telecommunications officials to carry valid identification tags to ensure easy identification and smooth passage. “I urge all Deltans to adjust to the new norm and cooperate with government and law enforcement agencies. “Drastic as these measures may seem, they are for our collective good. “At the same time, we must keep on praying to God to save us from the seismic effects of this pandemic,” Okowa said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .