The President of  African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr Akinwumi Adesina has commended the outgoing Director of Communication and External Relations Department of the bank, Dr. Victor Oladokun for his exceptional leadership. In a statement from the AfDB communication and External Relations Department on Monday, Adesina, praised the communication team for their tremendous work in training local and regional African journalists to help understand the Bank’s work and to report better on getting the message of the Bank across African countries. “I must say that the quality of the support that the communication team has provided to the bank for our Annual Meetings has been simply remarkable.  We have now reached a bar and the board of directors also commended Oladokun at their last meeting. “I would like for all of us to thank Victor Oladokun for being an outstanding professional, for being such a dedicated staff, for being somebody who mentored and supported all of his staff. Victor, as you leave the Bank, please go well. Our thoughts and blessings are with you.” The statement noted that Oladokun said it was “a singular honor” of his professional life to have worked at the Bank. It stated that while ddressing members of the communication team, the outgoing director said “you are a stellar and innovative team that has always gone the extra mile. Well done.  I encourage you to continuing reaching for new heights in the months and years ahead. Oladokun acknowledged President Adesina’s visionary leadership and his role in helping re-shape the narrative of a new and resurgent Africa. “As I leave the bank, I take with me our shared memories, challenges, and successes. Thanks for allowing me to be a part of this journey and for the excellent support you have given me as your Director of Communication. I will forever be grateful. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oladokun, who joined the Bank in 2017, is a veteran communications expert, and leaving the Bank on reaching the mandatory retirement age.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .