As part of its efforts to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerians, the Royalty Club of Egbaland (RCE), recently organised a two-day free medical outreach in Abeokuta, Ogun State, to commemorate the 34th anniversary of Lisabi Festival. Participants, who trooped to the Centenary Hall, Ake, Abeokuta, where the event was held, were screened for health issues, including diabetes, hypertension and eye defects. According to the President of RCE and Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Economic Planning and Budget, Mr. Adebayo Sodade, no fewer than 900 persons were screened. Those who needed medical attention were given free drugs and referrals to secondary and tertiary health facilities, to restore their health. He said 15 of those diagnosed with cataract and glaucoma would undergo free surgery sponsored by a Nigerian philanthropist. Sodade said: “We reached out to the poor and vulnerable in our community by organising free health screening in hypertension, diabetes, and visual impairment. High blood pressure and diabetes are silent killers and the topmost non-communicable diseases in Nigeria. “It is estimated that 30 percent of Nigeria’s 200 million population has hypertension, while 10 percent are diabetic and if undetected and treated, these could lead to complications such as kidney failure, heart diseases, strokes and ultimately, untimely death.  Our intervention is to alleviate the fatal risks posed by these silent killers.” He said the initiative was supported by Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Abeokuta; Vision Spring, Eleta Eye Institute, Ibadan; Unique Pharmaceuticals Limited and Healthline Limited, Lagos and Quarry Imperial Hotel, Abeokuta. Formerly known as Ake Royalty Boys, REC  was established 13 years ago to foster social, economic, cultural and sporting developments in Nigeria and promote the game of Squash in Egbaland, in tandem with the interest of His Royal Majesty, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, the Alake and Paramount Ruler of Egbaland.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .