Section 232 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), as well as the Supreme Court Act of 2004, Section 3, Sub-Section 1, stipulate that the number of justices of the Supreme Court shall not exceed 21. That means that they should not be more than 21. Going by the provisions of the Constitution, not minding that only 13 justices that are currently on the bench, the Supreme Court, without any ambiguity, is legitimately constituted to hear and determine any matter that is brought before it. 
 
However, the exigencies of the Nigerian situation appear to have put the Supreme Court at the brink of suffocation, as the prevailing socio-political situations in the country has not only led to influx of civil and criminal litigations but also, numerous political cases emanating from a democratic structure whose its credibility and acceptance diminishes with every election.  Unfortunately, while government hires and fires chief executives of agencies and parastatals, it treats judicial matters of urgent national interest with underserving indifference and complacency.  He said:  “This is not the first time that we are hearing of the need to jerk the number to 21, which is constitutionally allowed. The Constitution allows the maximum of 21, but in practice, the Supreme Court itself has never wanted to exceed 16. So, the agitation now to make it up to the constitutionally stipulated 21 is being given different meanings, by different people.
 
“But the clear implication of the depletion in number is that the work load is intense, and there is going to be another retirement by April. By the time that happens, the number of justices there would further deplete to 12.  He noted that even though it is constitutional to have less than 21 justices at the bench, there is, however, an urgent need for many more justices to allow for a multiplicity of panels dealing with different matters such as all these cases coming from states.  These candidates were short-listed from a total of 89 expressions of interest, but till now, nothing much has been heard about their appointment. Perhaps, the continued silence is not unconnected to the protest organised shortly after they were shortlisted by a group of lawyers, who kicked against their nominations, alleging that it did not follow due process
 
Regardless of the controversies that surrounded that move, Amadi believes that many Nigerians commended the initiative.
 
According to him, in the past, some very senior, and erudite private practitioners were appointed directly from their private practices to the Supreme Court bench, “so, when the CJN then announced that process and the NJC approved it, we saw that senior lawyers like Olisa Agbakoba and Awa Kalu indicated interest and had applied.  However, the position of the Constitution in such matters is that whosoever aspires to be appointed into the Supreme Court bench “must be a legal practitioner of not less than 15 years. The same applies to whoever is to be appointed as the Chief Justice of Nigeria.
 
Also, Section 231 subsection (3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) distinctly states that: “A person shall not be qualified to hold the office of Chief Justice of Nigeria, or of a Justice of the Supreme Court, unless he is qualified to practice as a legal practitioner in Nigeria and has been so qualified for a period of not less than 15 years.”
 
From the provisions of the Constitution, it is glaring that the candidates were also ‘eminently’ qualified to be appointed directly from their private practices to the apex court bench.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .