 Director-General of NADDC, Jelani Aliyu. Photo; TWITTER/NADDCCOUNCIL  The Nigerian Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) has unveiled a $1 billion worth of locally assembled vehicles in Abuja. Over 20 car manufacturing companies such as Stallion, Kojo Motors, JAC, Honda, Globe Motors GAC just to mention a few, assembled theses cars locally in Nigeria. The Director-General of NADDC, Jelani Aliyu, added that over 50,000 direct and indirect jobs had also been created following the Federal government’s launch of the National Automotive Industry Development Plan (NAIDP) in 2013. Aliyu said the plan contains a sizable number of incentives intended to revitalise the sector for the rapid development of Nigeria’s component and vehicle manufacturing. He noted: “The end product is today seen in the reinvigorated local automotive manufacturing sector, upscaling of, and establishment of new automotive assembly plants, redefining and deepening Nigeria’s automotive technology footprint, creating employment and offering a wide range of locally assembled vehicles for Nigerians.” NADDC is a government agency saddled with the development of the auto industry and strategically promotes the growth and sustainability of the sector while discouraging the importation of already made vehicles. Aliyu explained that it was unfortunate that the country imports already-made vehicles worth over $8 billion yearly, stressing that such un-necessary importation has continued to rub the country of scarce foreign exchange and denying the creation of jobs for the people. On his part, the House of Representative Chairman on Industry, Trade, and Investment, Akanni Badiru, said that the Nigeria Automotive Policy is good but must be backed by law for the protection of foreign and local investors. Badiru said: “Sometimes ago, we were told that Toyota or Peugeot manufacturing company has left Nigeria to Ghana and has established a plant there. This was made possible because our country’s auto policy laws were not yet in place.” In his message on the occasion, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, urged Nigerians to patronise the home made cars for the benefit of the economy. “These vehicles and brands we are unveiling today is a testament to the fact and the commitment of the automotive industry sub-sector, and the government’s efforts towards diversification of the non-oil sector of the economy. To this end, the role of the NADDC under the leadership of Engr. Jelani Aliyu in attracting investors from all over the world to invest in the automotive industry in Nigeria by creating a level playing ground for all stakeholders through an enabling environment to sustain the growth of the sector.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .