The newly-elected President, National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), Ibeji Nwokoma, has pledged to take the union to greater height amongst the comity of trade movement in Nigeria. His vision, which he termed, radically transformed, revived, reinvigorated and regenerated,” would be pursued with utmost dedication.
Speaking after he emerged the third substantive President of NAAT at the Association’s delegates’ conference, held at the University of Abuja, Nwokoma said he will run an inclusive, participatory, flexible and people oriented administration. He said: “The victory is not for Ibeji Nwokoma, but for the entire membership of NAAT, who willingly, conscientiously and tenaciously stood their grounds against all political manipulations and manoeuvrings geared towards denying the people from having the ideal leadership of their choice. “This degree of steadfastness and resolute demonstrated by the NAAT members in this 4th National Delegate Conference that led to my emergence as the 3rd substantive National President of NAAT is yet to be seen in many quarters in Nigeria. Indeed, you were able to change an old political equation that states that ‘power is not given, but rather taken’ to a new one, which now confirms that ‘power can be given by the people and not always taken from the people’. “You people gave me power to serve you. I am going to serve you and not to be served by you. I am going to be a leader and not a ruler.
“NAAT will be radically Transformed, Revived, Reinvigorated and Regenerated under my watch so as to rightfully occupy its enviable position among the other sister associations in the University Community. “It is going to be a collective effort because my emergence was by your collective support and resilience as we will pursue reasonably progressive agenda that will make me leave NAAT in a better status than I met it.“The dignified and respected NAAT that member aspire for is finally here. I once again dedicate this victory to the people who gave me power to be their National President.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .