UNDP Resident Representative, Mohamed Yahya Towards meeting the demands of the Paris agreement, the Federal Government has begun review of its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). The move is being implemented by the Federal Ministry of Environment through the Department of Climate Change (DCC) and supported by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNDP). UNDP has been supporting the implementation of Nigeria’s NDC through its large portfolio of climate and environment projects and flagship programme on NDC – the NDC Support Programme (NDC SP). Nigeria a member of the NDC Partnership, under the Climate Action Enhancement Package (CAEP) that provides technical and financial assistance to the country’s NDC revision through the Climate Promise: UNDP’s commitment to support 100 countries in the revision of their NDC by end of 2020. Under the UNDP intervention in Nigeria, the revision process will focus on the water sector, short-lived climate pollutants, forestry and other nature-based, gender integration as well as whole-of-society participation and the social and employment impacts of NDC measures. Other members of the NDC Partnership that responded to the Nigeria’ requests for support for the NDC revision through the Partnership’s Climate Action Enhancement Package (CAEP), include: Islamic Development Bank (ISDB), 2050 Pathways, UN Environment and GIZ. The 2050 Pathways will provide support to develop a long-term Low Emissions strategy, ISDB will support the stakeholder consultations, GIZ will focus on off grid/renewable energy targets whilst UN Environment on adopting appropriate technologies to achieve NDC targets. This support is scheduled to finish by the end of 2020. To jump-start the process, a one-day Inception Workshop on the NDC Revison and Implementation Planning was held in Abuja last week, as part of the NDC Partnership Support Unit. A team from UNDP had a five-day joint mission to Nigeria to kick-off the programme, and to assess the social, economic and employment impacts of NDC policies. UNDP’s Deputy Resident Representative, Lealem Dinku in his opening remark, noted that the current national climate targets under the Paris agreement are inadequate. “It is a reality we all share, which is why UNDP launched the Climate Promise on the margin of the last UNGA during the UN Secretary General Climate Change Summit, in which Nigeria featured prominently. “Our commitment is to work with countries to make their NDCs more technically robust and include new ways governments can step up their climate actions and finance these bold new goals,” he said. According to Dinku, the event is an opportunity for their support team and the NDC Partnership to provide technical support to Nigeria to revise its NDCs through an inclusive and transparent procedure, which offers opportunity to engagement with government, academia, civil society organisations and the private sectors and development partners. He said: “A vital element for a successful enhancement of the NDC is a strong political will and societal ownership at national- and sub-national levels.  It is a demonstration of UNDP’s strong commitments to keeping the climate promise to Nigeria in recognition of President Mohammadu Buhari’s exemplary commitment to tackling the climate emergency.” Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Environment, Dr Bakari Wadinga, stated that, under the NDC process, Nigeria is seeking to work with partners to enhance its commitment and realise opportunities to raise ambition. The Director, Department of Climate Change, Ministry of Environment, in his presentation, said Nigeria had committed itself to reducing emission by 20 per cent by 2030. Tarfa said that, for the country to achieve the commitment, the department had identified five priority sectors in the country. They are agriculture, transportation, oil and gas, industry and power sectors.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .