ASP Oyerinde David (left); ASP Ajulo Thompson; Rtr. Raheem Rashidat; Dr. Akintayo Akintoba, and DCO Lawal Luqman, at the seminar on peace building. Oweing from the incidences of gang wars, street fights, clash of suspected cult members and activities of robbery gangs in some Lagos neighbourhood, including Agege, the police have called for cooperation from residents to make its community policing strategy achieve its desired results. The call was made at a one-day seminar on Peace building and community safety; the responsibility of all, which was organized by the Rotaract Club of Agege, District 9110. Some participants at the event had lamented the state of insecurity in the area. According to Damilare Ayodeji, “the rate of insecurity in areas like Agege, Ipaja and environs is getting more serious. There are reported incidences of robbery gangs moving in large numbers and breaking into peoples homes at midnight to unleash terror on residents, especially at Balogun Ilawe in Dopemu Agege.” Responding, representative of the DPO, Pen-cinema police station, Agege, ASP Ajulo Thompson, said crime would be effectively tackled if the community volunteers timely information to the police. “We cannot be everywhere at the same time, which is why the police is driving its community policing strategy to establish a rapport between the communities and the police for effective security.” President of the Rotaract Club of Agege, Rtr. Raheem Rashidat, said the seminar was held to mark the Rotary International anniversary and its theme for the month, which was on peace building and conflict prevention. The club also held a childcare and anti-malaria campaign. Rashidat noted that improving the wellbeing of mothers, infants, and children is an important public health goal of Rotary International, which forms part of her six areas of focus. “This is why the club visited the Sango Agege Primary Healthcare Centre to educate nursing mothers and pregnant women on nutrition throughout pregnancy and breastfeeding. At the end of the lecture, they were given mosquito nets to protect them from malaria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .