The coronavirus pandemic has got the world speculating its genesis and among such theories is Young Thug’s suggestion that all answers can be found in biblical scriptures. Read More: Ryan Reynolds And Blake Lively Donate $1 Million To Fight Coronavirus In an Instagram post shared with his over 7million followers, Thugger suggested the Bible predicted the life-changing COVID-19 disease; the YSL Records boss highlighted a selection from the Second Book Of Chronicles and shared it on social media with directions to “pay attention children.” The verse reads: “Whenever I hold back the rain or send locusts to eat up the crops or send an epidemic on my people,” the Bible quote reads. “If they pray to me and repent and turn away from the evil they have been doing, then I will hear them in heaven, forgive their sins and make their land prosperous again.” Read More: Idris Elba Tests Positive For Coronavirus Thug, like so many around the world, will be dealing with the disruption caused by the coronavirus for the foreseeable future. Health officials have asked people to practice social distancing in an effort to stop the spread of the disease.   Coronavirus!! A post shared by  SEX!! (@thuggerthugger1) on Mar 16, 2020 at 10:28pm PDT  In some parts of the world, workers in various industries are now in a situation where they can’t do their jobs and have been asked to carry out their tasks remotely. School closures and major event cancellations/postponements have led to a new normal for society as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend no gatherings of more than 10 people. Back home in Nigeria, there are now five confirmed cases of COVID-19 and health officials doing their best to create awareness as well as promote the need for people to maintain a high level of personal hygiene. In addition, the Nigerian government has placed a travel ban on flights from countries with over 1000 recorded cases; these countries include – China, Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Japan, France, Germany, USA, Norway, UK, Netherlands, and Switzerland.