Despite several reports and commentaries drawing the attention of our duty bearers to the decay in the health sector before the current virus pandemic, no attention was paid, after all. And now the consequences of executive negligence are here with all of us. 
 
Some of the pre-COVID-19 editorials and headlines include: ‘‘Equip Nigerian hospitals like UK’s, ‘‘That Buhari may finish ‘healthy’,” ‘‘Nigeria’s healthcare system under threat,’’ NMA’s five-year plan for health sector’’ ‘‘FG and another health sector plan,’’ ‘‘Healthcare, boy Ali and our conscience!,’’ ‘‘NMA and unbridled doctors’’ exodus,’’ ‘‘Africa’s public service and health sector brain drain,’’ ‘‘As Nigerian doctors seek jobs abroad,’’ ‘‘Buhari’s curious lamentation about medical tourism,’’ and ‘‘Foreign medical treatment for public officials’’ among others. 
 
It is a shame because our leaders failed to read the writing on the wall because they could easily fly to other countries for their healthcare. This is unwarranted self-centredness and Covid-19 challenge has become the ‘‘arbiter.’’ The borderless Covid-19 pandemic, which is an equal-opportunity killer, has brought to the fore the effect of the age-long neglect of the health sector in Nigeria. It is hoped that the authorities are now alert to the poor state of the health sector.  This new paradigm should be intentional to invest in research and vaccine production instead of being import-dependent. Meanwhile, the authorities should use this time to plan robust investment in science education, which is the building block, in this regard. Besides, this is a time the private sector-led group can partner with the government and take over the gigantic hospital buildings that have been wasting away and turn them into quality health care facilities. This strategic partnership is needed at this time and beyond as it can lead to more people having access to quality health care at an affordable cost in the country. On preventive health, government at all levels should raise the bar. They should ensure access to basic necessities such as running water and other basic amenities and consumables to reduce the vulnerability of the low socio-economic group to diseases. The ongoing fumigation and disinfection of public places to reduce the spread of coronavirus should be part of an elaborate and comprehensive national preventive health strategy of the country. Where is the National Orientation Agency (NOA), which should embark on a massive and continuous campaign on preventive healthcare delivery at this time? All told this is the time for the authorities in Abuja to realise the danger of a unitary system of government this newspaper has repeatedly decried. It is time to migrate from unhelpful rhetoric of restructuring to action. Let all governors and local (government) leaders, find the political need to invest in healthcare facilities in their states and local councils. This devolution of powers will minimise the reproach of an independent country is dependent on the health services of other countries. And so this COVID-19 wake-up call should not make us a prisoner of hope. The sobering lesson should produce some cosmos (order) after the current confusion that has diminished us as Africa’s main giant. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .