YungAce While most young artistes are still trying to put their feet on ground in the competitive music industry, fast-rising Afro-pop artiste, Oreoluwa Sokan, popularly known as YungAce, is determined to make noticeable impact with his versatility. The talented singer is leaving no stone unturned having mastered his craft with a beautiful fusion of different genres of music. Meanwhile, back in 2014 when YungAce won the Coke Studio Concert, he never thought he could make it this far. But today, he is in the limelight, working with A-list stars. “Basically, I have always been around music. My grandpa was a choirmaster and I used to follow him to rehearsals. So, along the line, I started playing drums and piano. I’ve been around music since I was little, but I took it seriously in 2012 when I got admission to study in University of Lagos (UNILAG). I started dropping freestyles and I discovered that people fell in love with what I do. I entered and won the Coke Studio Concerts in 2014 and that set my career in motion. I had the opportunity to perform on stage with Olamide as the winner in the concert,” he enthused. However, before music, it was football for the young talent. “I was playing football, but somehow, music came and stole me away,” he noted. On what inspired him to go into music fully, he said, “I get to express myself more while making my sound, then things happening around me also contribute immensely to my music career. I realised that I found comfort in music.” On his journey in the industry since 2014 when he came to limelight, he said, “So far, it’s been good and rough; it’s been rough in terms of funds. When it comes to the part of me loving what I do, it’s been awesome. I had an EP titled Orin (Song) in November 2019 and it was just more like a storyline; I decided to create a love story with four songs.” He continued: “I have worked with Teni, Chinko Ekun, and I have a song with Joeboy coming out soon. I’ve learnt to be patient; I’ve improved on my sound working with these artistes. I commented on what Teni wore and she said I looked like an artiste; we spoke and she asked for my song; she listen to my music and called me that she loved it. Before then, I couldn’t go close to her, but working with her has also helped me on how best to relate with people.” As for his inspiration, the artiste said, “I listen to loads of sounds; I like good music. I really don’t have a favourite, but I love Fela’s sound; I grow up listening to him through my grandpa. Apart from Fela, there are lot of Nigerians doing music; Wizkid plays a huge role in my sound. I like to listen to different songs and I always try to adapt to any genre of music. I can’t really attach myself to a particular artiste,” he declared. Reacting to the notion that young artistes of today no longer play good music, he said, “It’s really what the market wants that artistes give out. Secondly, there are times where things get crazy, so, music is one of the major ways people get to relax. People don’t really look towards having something serious; they just want to ease their mind and move on. Aside from that, I feel we still have a lot of good songs and musicians with good sound. People like 2Face, Vector, Joeboy are still doing good music. Those that go to the club don’t go there to reflect; they just want to enjoy themselves. People, who do 9 to 5 jobs, don’t want to go home and reflect; they just want to relax.” YungAce, who is more into love songs these days, informed, “The last EP I dropped was basically a love song; a story based on heartbreak from a guy perspective. It was like a story line because I have skits in-between. There were two songs that has to do with my personally, one on a friend and the last one was animation. But I had to put them together. I’m working on more songs this year, more videos and shows,” he concluded. 