Two men in court for allegedly spitting on police officer Justice Adenike Coker of a Lagos High Court sitting in Ikeja yesterday sentenced an armed robbery gang leader, Muritala Salami, to death. The judge convicted and sentenced Salami to death after he was found guilty of the two counts charge brought against him by the Lagos State government. The state government had arraigned Salami on two-count charge of conspiracy and robbery. He was said to have led a four-man armed gang and robbed one Mr. Okocha Anthony Afiam of two phones and two wristwatches. His offence is contrary to section 299 of Criminal Law and Armed Robbery contrary to section 297 (a) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State. The other members of the robbery gang escaped at the time of arrest. During trial, the prosecution team led by a director with the Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in Lagos State Ministry of Justice, Dr. Jide Martins, called witnesses to testify in the matter. However, while delivering judgment, Justice Coker held that the prosecution has proved the case against the defendant beyond reasonable doubt, and convicted him as charged. She held that the convict who was arrested for robbery on April 16, 2016 was found guilty of the two-count charge against him and was sentenced to death. Meanwhile, two men, Kabiru Sadiku, 32 and Kehinde Junaid, 37, who allegedly spat on a police officer while performing his lawful duty, yesterday appeared in a Chief Magistrates’ Court in Surulere, Lagos. The defendants, who reside in Surulere area of Lagos, are charged with two counts of conspiracy and assault. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. The Prosecution Counsel, Sgt. Christopher Okoliko, told the court that the defendants committed the offence on March 12 at about 11:00a.m. at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. He alleged that the defendants, maliciously assaulted ASP Livinus Ogbobo, by spitting on his face while discharging his lawful duty. The prosecutor said the offence contravened the provisions of sections 174 (B) and 411 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The magistrate, Mrs. Bola Folarin-williams, admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N30,000 each with two responsible sureties each in like sum. Folarin-Williams adjourned the case until April 9 for substantive trial. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .