The Imo State Police Command has clarified that it did not ban people from moving around in the state, saying it only banned all forms of gathering. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, made the clarification in a message, stressing that the publications on banning of movement in the state was wrong. His words: “Please for the purpose of clarity, there is no ban on movement; the comment about movement as seen in the write up is just like advice. All should take note please.” An earlier statement by the PPRO, read in part: “It has come to the notice of the Command that some towns/villages/communities still intend holding meetings despite warnings and directives of the federal and state governments on social distancing and restrictions. “The Command therefore wishes to inform the general public that all forms of gathering anywhere within Imo State remains banned while all social gatherings, assemblies, meetings etc, be suspended until normalcy is restored. “The Command also warns all citizens to remain indoors and avoid unnecessary movement/visits. Furthermore, visit the state police headquarters or any other police formation is hereby suspended except on invitation and extreme circumstance as visitors are temporarily not allowed in all police facilities within the state.” The statement continued: “Similarly, the Command is also aware that the state government has directed the shutdown of all markets from Friday, March 27, and therefore advises the citizenry to adhere to the instruction for the good of all and sundry as ‘prevention they say, is better than cure’. On our own part, we shall ensure total enforcement of directives to the letter. “Finally, we urge all and sundry to stay at home and be safe, for together we shall pull through this difficult and unpleasant heath challenge. “ We remain in the business of providing safety and security to all even in the wake of the COVID-19 scourge.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .