After a keen competition among the contestants of the 6 seasons, a winner has emerged in the OLED TV Gaming Challenge grand finale. The grand winner, Junior Imaji, Pro-gamer went home with an OLED65c9 TV and a cash prize of N1million. Imaji, while receiving his prize, said, “It was quite tough and an interesting battlefield but I am elated to emerge as the winner. The N1million cash is the in-thing and the OLED TV is dope! I hope this platform that LG has created for gamers continue to grow stronger and birth more opportunities for professional gamers and amateurs.” Initiated in 2018, the challenge has since then turned out to be a yearly contest for gamers to show their skills, experience the fantastic features of OLED and battle with one another for a prize- OLED TV. General Manager, Home Entertainment Division, LG Electronics West Africa, Mr. Vanjamin Kim, said the initiative is for lovers of video game to demonstrate the beauty and the uniqueness of the ‘depth of black’ in OLED TV, especially when gaming on it.
 
“We intend to have more of this kind of gaming challenge to engage more of our consumers who love gaming. It’s an avenue to reward our customers and promote LG OLED TVs as the best TV for gaming. With exceptional picture quality, low input lag and an ultra-fast response time, LG OLED TVs have already earned a reputation for delivering an optimized gaming performance,” he said.
 
Head of Corporate Marketing of the company, Mr. Hari Elluru, said, “the addition of NVIDIA G-SYNC Compatibility raises the bar once more, guaranteeing even more immersive big-screen PC gaming on the company’s industry-leading 4K OLED models, available in 55 to 77 inch screen sizes. G-Sync and other VRR technologies help eliminate flicker, tearing or stuttering on displays when used to play games that are built using VRR”.
 
The Gaming Challenge has been held in different states of the federation, including Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Port Harcourt. The season 7 ended in style, as winners commended the brand for creating an exciting platform for gaming and TV lovers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .