 Aminu Masari  Consequently, security agencies including the police, civil defense and other sister agencies have been directed to ensure compliance at all business centres in the state. Governor Aminu Masari stated this in statewide broadcast at the weekend, stressing that the enforcement became necessary due to the level of damage the disease has done globally. Masari also said 70 per cent of the state’s health workforce have been instructed to make necessary adjustments to attend to patients that may develop symptoms of the disease. He, however, cautioned against hiding relatives who may come into the state through the nation’s borders, that show symptoms of the disease, adding that doing so could lead to people contracting the virus, or even death of those who come in contact with affected persons. The governor assured that funding was being made available to the Ministry of Health to purchase of required equipment to check the scourge, adding that an emergency infectious disease ward and a temporary isolation centre have been created to ensure that patients who show symptoms of the virus get immediate care. “The disease should not be taken lightly. If advanced nations of the world could face challenges from the virus, then there is the need for people to treat the disease with all the seriousness it deserves. “Government through the Ministry of Health has positioned its personnel to pay special attention to any individual who show signs of Coronavirus disease. “It is also making funding available to the ministry to ensure our hospitals are better positioned with the basic requirements including Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and other supportive facilities in the event of an outbreak. “The government is building an emergency Infectious Disease Ward at the General Amadi Rimi Specialist Hospital (GARSH) and a temporary Isolation Centre at the General Hospital, Katsina,” he said. Masari, who prayed God to bring the disease to an end, however, lamented that the virus could lead to serious socio-economic disruptions if not quickly curtailed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .