Students of Orimolade High School II, Ikirun receiving their trophy from the Rotary e-Club of Greater Nigeria To enhance accountability of members and foster new relationships, the Rotary Club of Akowonjo, District 9110, has rejigged its system and has also refurbished and donated 100 chairs and desks to Rauf Aregbesola Secondary School, Lagos. Speaking at the launch of ‘club-in-club’, president of the club, Rotn. Abdulkareem Musa, said the launch of the initiative is a way of propagating the club’s message of inclusion and growth. “The club is creating competition among its members to recruit, retain and grow membership on its way to becoming a mega club. The idea of Club-in-Club is to strengthen and retain membership, as well as group bonding, by breaking ourselves into smaller groups to have healthy competitions, which will drive the club forward,” he said. Chairman Membership of the club, Rotn. Olasukanmi Amoye, explained that the system avails older Rotarians who might not attend meetings the opportunity to be abreast with happenings. “The attention in recent times has been on giving, but it should not be limited to that. We are a group of professionals and we should use that for our growth and to serve humanity.” Meanwhile, another club, the Rotary e-club of Greater Nigeria has organized a quiz competition for public secondary schools’ students in Ikirun, Osun State as part the efforts to encourage and develop sustainable skills in STEM subjects and in line with Rotary’s focus on Basic Education and Literacy. The competition was organized in honour of Rtn. Idowu Wole, a member of the club who died in 2018. Six public secondary schools in Ikirun: Akinorun High School I, Akinorun High School II, Orimolade High School I, Orimolade High School II, Science High School and Onaolapo High School, battled it out at the competition on a range of topics. Rtn. Kazeem Oderinu, past president of the club and coordinator of the competition, praised all the schools that participated and commended the participants for their efforts, which saw Orimolade High School II came first with 20 points while Onaolapo Memorial High School, Ikirun and Orimolade High School I, came second and third with 18 and 14 points respectively. Adeosun Nafisat from Orimolade High School II, was the overall best student in the competition followed by Samson Elizer of Onaolapo Memorial High School, and Akinloye Racheal of Orimolade School I. The three overall best schools went away with a trophy presented by the president, Rtn. Oluwaseun Hassan while the three overall best students had their 2020 NECO registration paid for by the club. The club also donated food items, toiletries, mattresses and N50,000 to the Heart of Gold Children Hospice, Lagos in continuation of its humanitarian activities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .