Hilda, Elisha Abbo, Kate Henshaw This week has been dubbed as one of the hardest the world has had to face since the beginning of the decade. As if that is not enough, those who we thought kept love alive are leaving. The words on the mouths of many are “Can 2020 stop already?” Here is a rundown of the week: What if…? ATLANTA, GA – JANUARY 28: Keri Hilson attends Rick Ross Private affair at Rick Ross Mansion on January 28, 2016 in Atlanta, Georgia. (Photo by Prince Williams/WireImage) Several theories have emerged since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19). From accusations about China’s eating culture to population control theories, many have varying beliefs as to the cause of the pandemic. Singer Keri Hilson in a series of posts made on her Twitter and Instagram pages has given her take that 5G is responsible for COVID-19. The “Pretty Girl Rock” singer who has been sharing tips on how people can keep themselves safe during the outbreak, posted screenshots of articles regarding the dangers of 5G and warned people to turn off their 5G LTE. Trouble In Paradise? Tunde and Toolz. | Photo YabaLeft Nigerian On-air personality, Tolu Oniru, better known by her media name, Toolz has raised speculations about the status of her marriage following her new post and change of name on her Instagram page. In a now-deleted post, the radio personality took to her Instagram stories to write: “Those that fly solo have the strongest wings.” After this post, her husband’s name was removed from her Instagram Bio ow displaying only her media name. The public has thus reacted to this, laying claims that there might be a problem with many saying this was their last hope on true love. Weeds In Grains Hilda, Elisha Abbo, Kate Henshaw Veteran Nollywood actress Hilda Dokunbo has reacted to the appointment of Senator Elisha Abbo as a patron of the Actor’s Guild of Nigeria (AGN). Recall that Senator Abbo who represents the Adamawa North Senatorial District had been seen in a CCTV footage assaulting a female staff of a sex toy shop in Abuja. Dokubo described the appointment of Abbo as “disgusting” and a mockery of every positive value that the guild stands for. Dokubo is not the only one who shares this sentiment. Kate Henshaw made it known that she reached out to the president of the guild but has so far not gotten a response. [Sh*t] is getting real! Cardi B When Cardi B posted a short video explaining her fears of Coronavirus (COVID-19) to her 60 million Instagram followers, little did she know that she’d make the new anthem. “Let me tell y’all something, I ain’t even gonna front…Coronavirus! Coronavirus! I’m telling you, [expletive] is real! [Expletive] is gettin’ real!” A few days later, this was remixed by a Brooklyn D.J. and producer, DJ iMarkkeyz, and has now become a hit. With the remix topping charts on several hip-hop charts, it is now affirmed that everything Cardi does turn to gold. Light at the end of the tunnel Jack Ma | Photo Softpower News As the ‘untouchable’ celebrities have begun coming out to announce that they have contacted the virus, and the many of the world’s billionaires are turning a left eye to the virus. Jack Ma, the Chinese billionaire and co-founder of Alibaba has decided to change the narrative. In his first tweet, Ma announced that he is donating boxes of coronavirus test kits and face masks slated to be shipped and donated to the U.S. from Shanghai. Ma had previously announced on his Weibo account that he would donate 100 million yuan ($14.5 million) through his foundation to support medical research efforts and disease prevention.