A group of media professionals reporting the nation’s maritime sector, Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON), has called on multinationals and government agencies in the maritime sector to provide safety kits for journalists as measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The kits such as hand sanitizers, hand gloves, nose masks, and even financial support, they said would help them to be adequately equipped to give an up-to-date report on the coronavirus epidemic as they unfold to stakeholders in the sector and the public at large. They called on government agencies such as the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Maritime Safety Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), and Nigeria Customs Service among others to support the media to aid them to discharge their functions effectively, even as they work to stay alive for their families and the nation at large. President of AMJON, Paul Ogbuokiri, on the association’s position on the epidemic, urged members and stakeholders in the maritime industry to ensure they keep to safety rules by the World Health Organisation (WHO), by avoiding large crowds, social-distancing, personal hygiene and self-isolation if the need arises. With efforts made so far in curtailing the spread of the virus, Ogbuokiri commended the efforts of the Federal Government, Lagos State Government and other state governments, adding that the total lockdown of nations and closure of businesses call for strategic partnership and show of love among various nations, families, entities and organisations. AMJON said: “It is glaring that nations and businesses across the world have come to a standstill due to the ravaging coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19). There is no gainsaying the fact that the human race is facing one of its most trying times in recent history. “At this time it is very important to always check on our friends, colleagues, clients, brothers and sisters, not leaving out our stakeholders and business partners. By so doing, we are being our brother or sister’s, keeper. For sure there is hope in the horizon that we shall all come out stronger as a nation. God bless us all.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .