The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG) has called on the Federal Government to ensure that citizens in remote locations and hard-to-reach communities are considered in the responses to the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). It commended the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the National Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) for their efforts in addressing COVID-19 in the last one month. Chairperson of TMG, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi said that Lagos would go down in the history of the nation for its leadership role in the response and containment of the pandemic. “We believe that Lagos has set the pace for other states in Nigeria to emulate. We, therefore, call on other state governments to adopt the quick response approach of the Lagos government to enable the country address this global crisis, with limited causalities,” he said. TMG expressed concern about the role of water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) in combating COVID-19, especially with evidence from the national survey data showing that less than 30 per cent of poor Nigerians had access to improved sources of water and that households in rural communities were disproportionately impacted. “Evidence also shows that 34 per cent of rural communities must travel at least two hours’ round trip to fetch water. The reality will no doubt impact on the availability of the necessary WASH to address COVID-19. “While this deficiency in the WASH sector may not be addressed immediately, there must be efforts by the government to support palliatives to improve this condition during the pendency of this crisis.” The group urged governments at all levels to facilitate mass production and distribution of effective hand sanitisers to citizens, especially those who could not afford it. It called on Nigerians to take necessary precautions to protect themselves and their families from the virus. “We hope the government will come out of this crisis with lessons for good governance and better management of public funds and resources for the good of all,” TMG added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .