NairaWin is an innovative eCommerce platform, where Nigerians can bid as low as N100 and win products such as cars, smartphones, electronics, jewellery and others. Users can also win cash prizes. According to the Executive Director, VASCOM, a digital company providing value-added services, Olusegun Edu, said, “We discovered that an average Nigerian wants new things and big things. But with N100, they can now realise the lofty dream through this platform.” NairaWin is the first-ever E-Commerce bidding portal with a unique shopping experience, where customers can bid for their favourite products (high-end phones, watches, electronics items, jewellery, cars, e.t.c). It will be the first of its kind where customers at a nominal entry ticket of ₦100 to ₦500 can aspire to win a mega prize like an iPhone, laptop, car, LCD television and many more also other consolation prizes (Airtime, data bundle, mobile accessories e.t.c). “Customers can bid through multiple modes now through SMS, USSD & WEB mode which is handset agnostic.
This product is service-based, as it will be a mobile and web application. It is a participatory game of chance. Users purchase one or more ₦100 ticket for a selected item. Price of the product and quantity of ticket is set based on the retail price and the same amount of value ticket will be sold.
“Naira Win Platform” provides a network space for the sale of various commodities in the “share sale” mode. “On this platform, goods are divided into numerous equal shares and participants can buy one or more shares using the official Naira Win website or mobile application. They will then have to wait till all the shares are sold out, and then the system will deduce the participant who will finally get the goods according to the platform rules. “The product will be offered through operators on their billing platforms through airtime decrement and also through other modes of payment like Paystack and Opay. “VASCOM is the parent company. It is a digital company creating products and services. At VASCOM, we have the lottery licence and all requirements to do this business. More digital products will be rolled out in the future. Our target is to contribute significantly to Nigeria’s digital economy drive. The sole reason we are pushing our operations digitally. “As a Nigerian brand, we are everywhere. Our target is to expand to other African countries soonest. We are working fast on that. It is a long-term strategy.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .