Just like some foods can help you feel better whenever you are feeling under the weather, some foods can make you feel worse and it is important to know these foods to avoid them when you feel sick. Below are foods you should stay away from whenever you have a cold or flu according to The Healthy. Crunchy Foods
Eating hard or crunchy foods like nuts, crackers, raw vegetables, etc when you have a cold could irritate the throat and worsen the cold or flu. Simply go with soft foods that are easy to swallow and do a saltwater gargle to soothe the throat and speed up the healing process. Fatty Foods
Resist the temptation of eating greasy or fatty foods whenever you are feeling under the weather as it could lead to an increase of inflammation, cause you to produce more mucus and just make you feel worse. Stick with healthier foods that can help boost your immune system. Alcohol
It is very important to stay hydrated when you are sick to speed up the recovery process and prevent the mucus from getting too dry. Take warm water to stay hydrated and avoid taking alcohol as it will only lead to dehydration, nasal congestion, and inflammation. It can also weaken the white blood cell. Citrus Fruits
Grabbing citrus juice or fruit like orange, grapefruit, lemon, etc when you have a cold or feel nauseous could lead to nasal congestion, irritate the stomach and may lead to stomach upset. You can rather take an over-the-counter vitamin C supplement. Simple Carbs
There are different types of carbohydrate and not all are harmful to the body. Simple carbs can help when you have a stomach upset but refined carbohydrates like bread, crackers, pasta, and rice are easily converted to sugar when consumed and it could lead to inflammation. Opt for healthier carbohydrates like wheat bread, whole grain or foods high in fiber as they can help reduce inflammatory effects. Sweets or Sugar Avoid using too many sweet treats and sugary drinks to comfort yourself whenever you have a cold because a high intake of sugar could lead to inflammation and decrease the immunity system making your cold or flu worse. Caffeinated drinks
It is always advisable to just go for water as the intake of caffeinated drinks like coffee, soda, and tea which sometimes contains sugar has the same effect on the body as an alcoholic drink. It could lead to inflammation which makes it hard to fight off infections, make you more dehydrated and slow down the recovery process. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.