 Buhari receives in audience first Nigerian ever elected as President of Medical Women International Association in its 100 years of existence, Dr Eleanor Nwadinobi, at the State House, Abuja. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV<br />  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commended Nigerian women for their achievements in different fields of endeavour, urging them to remain steadfast in their chosen professions and be role models to the younger generation. He gave the commendation during a visit by the President of Medical Women’s International Association (MWIA), Dr. Eleanor Nwadinobi to him in Abuja. Congratulating Nigerian women on breaking new grounds in the medical field, President Buhari said he was delighted to receive Nwadinobi, who is the first Nigerian elected as President of the Association in its 100 years of existence. His words: “I am also proud to see and hear about the great achievements of Dr Nwadinobi. The story of her career and what she has been able to accomplish thus far is commendable and must be celebrated.” Responding, Nwadinobi thanked the President for receiving her and her team members, noting that with her election, the Association has not only honoured Nigeria, “but also aligned with your administration in stepping up to the Next Level.” Besides, the Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) has said corruption has limited the participation of women in politics in the country, stressing that it had decided to intervene in the fight against corruption to enhance the political participation of women. Executive Director of WARDC, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, stated that corruption had also played a major role in hindering women’s access to justice, peace, security, economic empowerment, and sexual reproductive rights, adding that women suffer more than men when corruption hindered development in society. She spoke in Enugu at a meeting between grassroots women and service providers in Nigeria. Represented by Mrs. Margret Nwagbo, she said interfacing with service providers would enhance negotiation in development and equip them with the right information on the fight against corruption to enhance their public participation. In a related development, wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu has reaffirmed her commitment towards promoting unity among women in the state and ensuring that they were carried along in politics. She stated this at this year’s celebration of International Women’s Day, adding that she was committed to the cause of women in their dedication to nation-building. Meanwhile, Empowering Nigerians with micro loans for boosting small-scale businesses demonstrates Federal Government’s commitment to take 100 Nigerians out of abject poverty. Atorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami made the declaration in Argungu, Kebbi State, while speaking as the special guest of hounour at the distribution of micro loans to 1,500 women and youth in Kebbi State organised by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE). This was contained in a statement from Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations in the office of the Attorney General, Umar Jibrilu Gwandu yesterday in Abuja. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .