Critical stakeholders in the new port city in Ijegun Egba area of Lagos have harped on the need for infrastructural development to aid smooth access to the seaport, which also harbours several petroleum tank farms. Residents of the community welcomed the commissioning of one-kilometre Westron road and bridge in the area, but further called for government intervention to provide alternative and access roads to the seaport. Also, the National President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Tony Iju said the location of the new port city in Ijegun Egba is very strategic to economic growth, urging the government to be proactive in providing necessary infrastructure to the port. The Ijegun Port City is about 14 hectares (140,000sq meters) located in Ijegun Egaba community in Amuwo Odofin local council, and is expected to host the maritime community and take off 25 per cent of the Apapa traffic chaos. Chief Executive Officer of Westron Group Limited, George Igboegwu, said, “the new bridge and road by Westron represents part of our contributions towards infrastructural deficit in the new city. It is our hour hope that with the combined effort of both private and public sectors, the city will see further growth, making significant contributions towards relieving the Apapa problem.” He noted the development of the port city was bound to come with some discomfort to the residents, hence the construction of the road, bridge and flood control mechanism.He said: “It is in the light of this that we have assisted with the construction of flood control canals, road and dredging work for the community.” Already, he said a giant multinational oil firm, a container handling company and a top Nigerian gas company have indicated interest in the establishing their facility in the new ports city. Igboegwu sought the support of the state government to contribute towards the development of the area. Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, gave the assurance that the project would bring increased opportunities to the area.Obasa, who was represented by the House Committee Chairman on Legislative Compliance, Amuwo Odofin Constituency 2, Mr Rauf Age-Sulaiman, said: “What they are doing is part of what government would have done, but we know this is a new government and government is about continuity, and we will do everything possible to support their efforts,” He noted the Ijegun Port City would boost the economy of the community and contribute immensely to national growth.Chairman Satelite Town Forum, Governor, Michael Imitini, expressed fears over the location of tank farms in the area, and called on the state government to help build reliable road infrastructure in order to ease the movement around the community. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .