• Real One, Baby Face, Esepo headline GOtv Boxing Night 21 Nigerian professional boxers will test their valour in six fights across various weight divisions on Easter Sunday, April 12 in Lagos, including two World Boxing Federation (WBF) bouts featuring Nigeria’s Rilwan ‘Real One’ Oladosu and Rilwan ‘Baby Face’ Babatunde. Another Nigerian, Taiwo ‘Esepo’ Agbaje is also listed for an international challenge contest in the GOtv Boxing Night 21. Flykite Productions, organisers of the GOtv Boxing Night, made the announcement yesterday in Lagos. The event is billed for April 12 at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium in Lagos. Oladosu, who is the West African Boxing Union (WABU) lightweight champion, will face Ghana’s Emmanuel Quartey, while the WBF Africa title contest will feature Babatunde (WABU welterweight champion), and Tanzania’s Mkwalekwa Salehe. The event will also see the explosive Agbaje, national featherweight champion, test his mettle against Moses Dodzi of Ghana in an international challenge duel. Also on the card is Sadiq ‘Happy Boy’ Adeleke, who will face Tunde Olojede in the national bantamweight title clash. There are two non-title duels in the light heavyweight lightweight categories. Daniel ‘Big Shark’ Emeka will square up against Segun ‘Success’ Olanrewaju, while GOtv Boxing NextGen Search graduates, Alaba ‘Elyblow’ Omotola faces Lateef Akintola. Speaking at the event, Jenkins Alumona, Managing Director of Flykite Promotions, noted that while the country celebrates international boxers of Nigerian descent, it was important to provide Nigerian boxers the opportunity to also become world champions. He stated he was excited by how the event had over the years positioned Nigerian boxers to have a shot at world titles. “We at Flykite are particularly excited that someone that just came to the National Stadium to join the GOtv Boxing NextGen Search will, after a few years, be fighting for an African title. This is a thing of pride for us, our lead sponsors, GOtv, the NBB of C and Nigerian boxing in general,” Alumona said. Also speaking, Jennifer Ukoh, GOtv Public Relations Manager, stated that the sponsor’s remained committed to the sport in Nigeria, as evidenced by its expansion through the introduction of GOtv Boxing Mini and GOtv Boxing NextGen Search. “We at GOtv and MultiChoice are delighted to be part of this event. This is the 21st edition and this is a proud moment for us. There have been tremendous progress since the first edition, and we have expanded our activities for GOtv Boxing Night to include the GOtv Boxing Night Mini and the GOtv Boxing Night NextGen Search,” Ukoh stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .