The Ebonyi State government has revealed that it would storm the 2020 National Sports Festival with 187 athletes and officials. Addressing journalists in Abakaliki on Wednesday, the state’s Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Charles Akpuenika, said with the level of preparedness of the athletes, he had no doubt that the contingent would win in all the games. He revealed that as part of the preparation for the games, the state’s football team, a.k.a Akubaraoha Boys, would take on Calabar Rovers in a friendly match on Sunday, adding that the team participated and qualified in the zonal elimination of the forthcoming festival. The commissioner, who said it was a milestone that the state’s team qualified to represent the South-East zone in the football and male and female cricket events, disclosed that Governor David Umahi would be on hand to watch the friendly match at the Pa Oruta Ngele Township Stadium, Abakaliki. “Recall that two months ago, the state, by the approval of EXCO, participated in the zonal elimination of the forthcoming National Sports Festival, which will take place in Edo State. “For the first time since 1998, the state’s football team qualified to represent the South-East in the football stage. The state also qualified to represent the zone in Cricket for male and female categories; it also qualified to represent the zone in Volleyball for female; and Basketball, female. “In the buildup to the competition, the EXCO today approved money for Ebonyi contingent to participate in the forthcoming National Sports Festival. “I give Glory to God and appreciate our sports-friendly Governor for heeding to our request for Ebonyi Contingent to participate in the NSF.” “This Sunday, with the approval of His Excellency, we have secured a friendly match between Calabar Rovers and our team, popularly known as Akubaraoha Boys. The Match will be played at Pa Oruta Ngele Township Stadium, Abakaliki, the state capital, by 4pm.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .