An award connotes a gesture of appreciation of good things done, positive contributions or exceptional service to the society, a community or a people, every society values award either for the purpose of promoting excellence, appreciating achievers, bringing out the best in people or challenging people to do more.
 
The United Nations, member-nations, as well as other local and international institutions, recognise the place of the award. No wonder we have the various prestigious Nobel Prizes in many fields periodically awarded by the UN.
  
In Nigeria there are various awards often bestowed on individuals adjudged to have made exceptional mark or contributions in the country or to mankind. Apart from the Nigerian National Awards awarded by the Federal Government, there are also other being awarded by highly respected institutions and agencies, including universities in the country.  The humanist Islamic cleric whose only source of income was his modest farm could hardly be paid for his transport and that of a few people who accompanied him to receive the award! In fact the Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi personally paid for his return journey and that of his entourage!  As corrupt as the Nigerian society has become, this Briton who dedicated his life to the education of Nigerian youths, confessed that for the over 52 years he lived in Nigeria, he neither gave nor received a bribe from anybody. Another hope for Nigeria! Among the numerous Nigerian youths then, he served as their guardian, sponsor and also parented are today successful men like Tunji Abayomi, Gbenga Omotoso a fore-most journalist and Lagos State Commissioner for Information, Senator Tay Alasoadura, Ayo Ogedengbe, a renowned broadcaster, Sola Ebiseni, a former Commissioner in Ondo State.
  
Bishop Femi Felix Ajakaiye, the Catholic Bishop of Ekiti, is an exemplary cleric-right activist, a humanist and a modest philanthropist. He was one of the few clerics who condemned the annulment of June 12, 1993, Presidential election won by late MKO Abiola, and was also a front line campaigner for its de-annulment and restoration of democracy in Nigeria.
  
Before delving into some of the significances of the decision of choosing these beneficiaries and the message it has for our country and as a people, it is very important to point out and for the purpose of applauding the decision, particularly the awards for Iphigernia Coker and Garguilo, the timeliness of the decision as the duo passed on early this year.  So, Mrs Efunjoke Coker, the Mother of mothers; icon in the educational sector; (WASA) Woman of Substance.
  
For this singular and laudable effort to do things differently but honorably by refusing to monetise its awards as done by many sister institutions and by that projecting, this country, her people and even the government in a positive and a commendable light, it would not be too much for the government to direct relevant agencies to formally commend the students, staff and Management of FUOYE.  It may also not be out of place that as part of efforts to sanitise honorary awards in Nigerian universities, legislation that will make both the National Orientation Agency and the Ministry of Education part of the decision-making process in the award of honorary degrees, be put in place.  Fanoro, a journalist, wrote from Ado-Ekiti. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .