Corona Junction Of Plateau State Stigmatised 
Plateau State Government has directed that pre – primary, primary, secondary schools and tertiary institutions in the state should close latest today (Saturday, March 21) for fear of the dreaded and deadly coronavirus. Government has also directed that all forms of overseas trips be put on hold till further notice, be it conferences, seminars, workshops and ceremonies. Secretary to the Government of the State, Prof. Danladi Atu, in a statement yesterday, also directed Plateau citizens to continue to adhere strictly to safety measures and public enlightenment programmes being issued by the State Ministry of Health in order to curb the spread of the disease. Meanwhile, the youths living at Corona Junction, Yelwa Club Side, Bukuru in Jos South Local Council of the state protested yesterday for being stigmatised as “Coronavirus Junction Peddlers of the disease.” The youth, through their leader, Pam Andrew, vehemently insisted that they are not living with the virus as they have been living in the area for decades now.
    
However, the state government, yesterday, convened a meeting comprising chairmen and secretaries of the Jama’at Nasril Islam (JNI) and CAN, First Class and Second Class traditional rulers in the state, President, Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) Plateau State chapter; Dean, Faculty of Medicine and others. University of Jos, Chief Medical Directors of Jos University Teaching Hospital and Plateau Specialist Hospital and representatives of private hospitals, heads of Christian denomination and Islamic Sect, President and Secretary of Plateau State Market Association, Chairman and Secretary of Plateau State Elders’ Forum to find a way forward on the virus. The Plateau State Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) says whatever has a beginning will definitely have an end as it was sympathising with the countries that are badly affected by the coronavirus, praying that the Lord will comfort the families that have lost their beloved ones and healing to those infected and those quarantined.
     
State chairman of the association, Rev. Soja Bewarang appreciated the positive and pro – active measures the Federal and in particular the Plateau State governments have taken to prevent the spread of the virus.
   
In view of the threatening nature of the epidemic that has resulted in the shut down of major activities worldwide, Bewarang is calling on church leaders not to take the threat lightly but provide proper enlightenment and necessary precautionary measures should be extended to members and churches.
     
He advised that the use of sanitisers must be encouraged at the entrances of worship and meeting places.
         
The meeting, presided over by the State Deputy Governor, Prof. Sonni Tyoden, was principally convened to find ways of how the pandemic could be tamed.
         
The participants at that meeting said the issue of hand washing sanitisers should be taken seriously.
         
The Chief Medical Director (CMD) of JUTH, Prof. Edmond Banwat disclosed that the hospital has the best hand sanitisers which other states have been coming to buy them.
         
But the traditional rulers said that whatever government decided would be supported by them; adding that they would enlighten their members at the grassroots and commended government for organising the meeting.
         
The doctors invited told the stakeholders that the virus is very pandemic, adding that the preventive measure to be taken is to embark on constant washing of hands, adding that all entrances of worship centres (Mosques and Churches) should have hand sanitisers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .