Gal Gadot playing the role of Wonder Woman | Photo: WSYX Fans of Wonder Woman will have to wait for its prequel “1984” a bit longer as its release date has been postponed by Warner Bros. According to Variety, the production giant is postponing Diana Prince’s return to the big screen due to the coronavirus pandemic, hence it will now hit theaters on August 14 instead of June 5. “When we greenlit ‘Wonder Woman 1984,’ it was with every intention to be viewed on the big screen and are excited to announce that Warner Bros. Pictures will be bringing the film to theatres on Aug. 14,” Toby Emmerich, Warner Bros. Pictures Group chairman, said in a statement. “We hope the world will be in a safer and healthier place by then.” Warner Bros. is said to have been particularly cautious in setting a new release date for “Wonder Woman 1984” because it is expected to be one of the highest-grossing movies of the year. It carries a hefty budget above $180 million, so outsized box office ticket sales are essential for the film to turn a profit. Since “Wonder Woman 1984” wasn’t going to hit the big screen for another two months, the studio hadn’t gotten to the bulk of its promotional efforts yet. However, one of the most effective marketing tactics for studios is having trailers play in theaters before other releases. That can’t happen, of course, unless multiplexes are open. Read More: Over 500 Cinemas In China Reopen As Coronavirus Cases Drop “Wonder Woman 1984” is a sequel to 2017’s “Wonder Woman,” DC’s first standalone movie to spotlight a female superhero. The first film earned $821 million globally and became a massive critical and commercial success. The follow-up, again directed by Patty Jenkins, follows Gal Gadot’s Amazonian warrior in the Reagan era as she battles two formidable foes — Maxwell Lord (Pedro Pascal) and Cheetah (Kristen Wiig) — while reuniting with her past love, Steve Trevor (Chris Pine). The cast also includes Robin Wright and Connie Nielsen. The studio also indefinitely pulled “In the Heights” — an adaptation of Lin-Manuel Miranda’s musical that was due out June 26 — as well as “Scoob” — an animated film based on “Scooby-Doo” characters set for May 15. “Malignant,” a thriller from “Aquaman” director James Wan, was originally scheduled to open on August 14, but was bumped for “Wonder Woman 1984″; those three movies remain without dates for now.