Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma inspecting the guard of honour mounted by Batch A corps members during their passing out parade at Heroes Square in Owerri…yesterday. 42 to repeat in Kaduna, Katsina, Delta
The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) office in Kogi State has said that the Corps lost five corps members in the state due to ill-health in the service year under review, and prayed for their souls to continue to rest in peace. The state Co-ordinator of NYSC, Olayiwola Lasaki, who disclosed this during the closing ceremony of 2019 Batch ‘A’ 1,400 corps members posted to the state a year ago. In his remarks, Governor Yahaya Bello, who was represented by the state’s Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Musa Idris, commended the corps members for their immense contributions. Also, it was not all pleasant stories in Lagos and Akwa Ibom states as both lost four and five corps members respectively during the service year. Lagos State Co-ordinator of the scheme, Mr. Sunday Aroni and his Akwa Ibom counterpart, Mr. Julius Amusan, disclosed this during 2019 Batch “A” passing out ceremony. Akwa Ibom State governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, represented by Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Youths and Sports, Mrs. Mary Bassey, assured corps members posted to the state that government would consider an improvement on its monthly allowance to corps members serving in the state. In Benue State, the governor, Samuel Ortom, represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Anthony Ijohor (SAN) at the ceremony, advised the corps members to make use of their newly-acquired skills and knowledge. In a related vein, Governor Nasir El-Rufai said that his administration would forever remain grateful to the founding-fathers for setting up such an enduring institution that promotes unity, national cohesion and socio-economic development. The governor, represented by Commissioner, Ministry Human Services and Social Development, Hafsat Baba, urged the passing out corps members to always put to practice all the skills acquired in the course of the service year. Meanwhile, while 16 out of the 3,049 corps members deployed to the state are to repeat the one-year compulsory service, seven would repeat in Katsina State. The NYSC state Co-ordinator, Mr. Ahidjo Yahaya, stated this yesterday during passing-out ceremony. However, indications emerged that no fewer than 21 corps members in Enugu State would either be remobilised or have their service year extended for various offences committed during the service year. The state Co-ordinator, Mr. Sam Ujogu, disclosed this in Enugu State. He, however, regretted that three other corps members out of the 2,243 in the batch lost their lives during the service year. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, represented by his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Chief Uwakwe Azikiwe, said that the contribution of the corps members to the development process of the state was appreciated. In Kebbi State, the state NYSC Co-ordinator, Mr. Mustapha Muhammad, said that the service year of eight corps members had been extended by four months for violating the rules of the scheme. In Plateau State, the NYSC and the state governor, Simon Bako Lalong, have given state’s honour award to eight of the corps members for displaying selfless service to humanity. However, corps members in Sokoto, Rivers and Bayelsa and Delta states were urged to remain steadfast and committed to the cause of nation-building.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .