Keri Hilson | Design Press Several theories have emerged since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) that originated from China in 2019. From accusations about China’s eating culture to population control theories, many have varying beliefs as to the cause of the pandemic. International singer Keri Hilson in a series of posts made on her Twitter and Instagram pages has given her take that 5G is responsible for COVID-19. The “Pretty Girl Rock” singer who has been sharing tips on how people can keep themselves safe during this outbreak today opined that the coronavirus outbreak is linked to the 5G network rollout in China. She posted screenshots of articles regarding the dangers of 5G and captioned it: “People have been trying to warn us about 5G for YEARS. Petitions, organizations, studies…what we’re going thru is the affects of radiation.  5G launched in CHINA. Nov 1, 2019. People dropped dead. See attached & go to my IG stories for more. TURN OFF 5G by disabling LTE!!!”” Hilson goes on to mention in an Instagram video that she believes, along with other conspiracy YouTube videos, that there’s a link between 5G and the coronavirus outbreak. She went on to explain that the reason why the coronavirus outbreak is not prevalent in Africa is not because of melanin as some quarters believe but because Africa is not a 5G region. She wrote: “And to be clear, I’m saying there have been lots of studies and experiments that point to the possibility that the dangerous levels of electromagnetic radiation (5G) could be causing the contagious virus. Why do you think the virus is not happening in Africa like that? Not a 5G region. There may be a few bases there, but not as prevalent as other countries. It has nothing to do w/ melanin (for those theories).” Her tweets have since been met with backlash as her fans and nonfans alike were not impressed and bashed the singer for her tweets. Check out reactions to her posts below: I saw Keri Hilson fine ass trending and thought something happened to her. Turns out she just stupid. pic.twitter.com/k4OfchUtgT — hello.exe (@ThatCADguy) March 16, 2020  Keri hilson out here spreading conspiracy theories that corona virus is a result of 5G networks pic.twitter.com/hLZFpLFH5O — pedi pendergrass (@TylerTexasEx) March 16, 2020  Keri Hilson girl be quiet before I get Beyonce pic.twitter.com/iu1MHa3D2o — Kali (@KallieM21) March 16, 2020  Keri Hilson proving to me that Am not the dumbest person on earth lmao pic.twitter.com/OgRRe6Y8tj — YouLoveToSeeIt (@AndiEntertainer) March 16, 2020  keri hilson thought she made a groundbreaking discovery and thought we wanted to hear all about it, now she getting laughed at by all of twitter pic.twitter.com/DQGJnJ0K1M — tired (@chokeyonce) March 16, 2020  Keri Hilson might be right, one thing is, we should not be taking Coronavirus education from the mainstream media seriously. do you know a fiction book predicted the Wuhan virus around 40 years ago? "The Eyes of Darkness", written by Dean Koontz in 1981 Have you read the book? pic.twitter.com/Qlak3sVFin — IFA FUNSHO (@funshographix) March 16, 2020 