• Kebbi constitutes task force
• Catholic Church stops Masses in Adamawa Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State has closed six entry points into Maiduguri to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) in the metropolis. The deputy governor, Umar Kadafur, told journalists yesterday at Njimtilo entry point that the main entry points to be shut by midnight were Damaturu/Njimtilo, Bama and Dikwa. Health workers from the federal and state ministries of health are already stationed at each entry point to take body temperatures as well as ensure social distancing and handwashing with soap and water. Before the lockup of the entry points, the state government had set up a100-bed isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. Even as the disease is yet to be recorded in Borno, the Commissioner for Health Dr. Salihu Kwayabura, said in Maiduguri yesterday that the inauguration of the COVID-19 Centre as part of measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the state. In its efforts to curtail COVID-19, Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Bagudu yesterday approved the establishment of a task force for COVID 19. A document signed by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Babale Yauri, indicated that the Commissioner for Health would serve as the chairman of the task force, while members included permanent secretaries in the Ministries of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Environment, Lands and Housing, Information and Culture. Meanwhile, all the Catholic churches in Yola diocese on Sunday cancelled all their Masses and locked down, in line with the directives of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in the state. The Holy Mass is the highest form of prayer in the Catholic Church, and it is regarded as trespass for any faithful to miss Mass on Sunday or holy day of obligation without cogent reason. Chairman of the state’s CAN, who is the Catholic bishop of Yola, Dr. Stephen Mamza, had directed that all church activities should be put on hold until the pandemic was brought under control. St. Theresa Catholic Church in Jimeta, St. Paul Catholic in Sengere, St. Joseph Damiru at Airport Road and others visited by  The Guardian were on lockdown. But services were going on in Lutheran Church of Christ in Nigeria (LCCN), Sengere; Jesus Save Fellowship Church; Covenant Faith Church; Encouragement Ministry along Mubi/Yola road and many other non-Catholic churches visited. However, the population in those churches that held services was scanty and the ministers stood far from the congregation, using a microphone and giant speakers to preach.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .