A former Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Edo State, Chris Ogiemwonyi, yesterday, said it was imperative for all aspirants seeking governorship ticket to unfold their plans for the state, as well as their experience and antecedents in their previous job/career before diving into politics. Ogiemwonyi, in an interview with The Guardian in Benin City, said he remains the candidate to beat in the forthcoming APC primaries election in the state, describing the election as one that should be about ensuring the best candidate emerges. He stated: “I am not a local champion; I know what I am carrying. At the centre, I was one of the best managing directors NNPC ever produced. This informed my decision not to play second fiddle in Edo politics. “I am still one of the best at the level of management as far as NNPC is concerned. Based on my antecedents in NNPC, I have so much to offer Edo people as governor, if elected. “If we are talking about aspirants, I have what it takes to govern Edo State. You can check my pedigree and antecedents during my days in NNPC. I am still the only person that ran three SBU’s for NNPC. I was managing director of NAPIMS, managing director of NPDC Benin and managing director of Nigeria Gas Company (NGC) before I became a group executive director…” Ogiemwonyi charged Edo people to challenge all aspirants of the ruling party to present their scorecards and achievements as it relates to their career before joining politics, noting that it is on this basis that the right-thinking Edo indigenes should support any aspirant for governor. He noted that the best among the aspirants should be given the party’s ticket to redefine governance and attract the dividend of democracy to the benefit of the people. Ogiemwonyi said the party was committed to ensuring that all six aspirants in the state vying for the governorship to unseat Governor Godwin Obaseki would come together and present one of them in the September election, adding: “We have all agreed to work together. We are going to raise money to buy the nomination form for one of us. We are six aspirants vying for the governorship in the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .