Vitamin C | Photo – WebMD Vitamin C is one of the most essential vitamins that have been linked to a lot of health benefits needed in the body. It is a water-soluble vitamin that can be found in citrus juice and fruits like oranges, lemon, and grapefruit, berries like strawberry, blueberry, and raspberry, watermelon, bell pepper, etc. It is recommended to get a daily intake of vitamin C and it can be gotten through our diet or supplements. Below are five proven benefits of vitamin C according to Healthline. Manage the blood pressure level Vitamin C helps to reduce excess fluid in the body which may help reduce the pressure level in the blood vessels. It helps to regulate blood pressure in both healthy adults and those with high blood pressure. May help reduce the risk of heart disease Vitamin C may help protect the arteries against damage and also help to reduce risk factors like; high blood pressure, LDL (“bad”) cholesterol and triglyceride level which may turn reduce the risk of heart disease. Protects the memory and thinking over time Vitamin C helps to reduce oxidative stress and inflammation near the central nervous system which can, in turn, prevent thinking disorders like dementia by protecting and improving memory and thinking in both adults and children. Helps to boost immunity Vitamin C helps the white blood cells function effectively and also increases the production of the cells which helps to protect the body against infections and harmful molecules. It also boosts the skin’s defence system and helps the wound heal faster. Reduces the risk of chronic disease Vitamin C is a strong antioxidant that can boost the blood antioxidant levels and the immune system by protecting the cells from harmful molecules that induce oxidative stress which is linked to many chronic diseases. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.