Stored baby milk image Icloud Home remedies are a constant for many people, especially in cases where it is difficult to get treatment in time. However, any herbal supplement or remedy could potentially cause liver or kidney failure or have dangerous interactions with other medications you may be taking. It is, therefore, paramount to be aware of the effects of the herbal or any treatment you opt to use in order to avoid dangerous complications. Below are some herbal and home remedies constantly used and their likely side effects: Breast Milk
Most people have attested to the use of breast milk in treating some health issues, especially for babies since breast milk is the best and healthiest food for them. However, Sarah, a medical doctor, an obstetrician and gynaecologist in Los Angeles has stated in The Medium that breast milk can transmit infectious diseases such as HIV and pumped breast milk if not stored properly can be contaminated and can actually introduce bacteria into an already infected area. She advised that patients suffering from infections or inflamed skin should try to keep the area clean and dry and seek medical attention. Castor Oil
Many pregnant women believe that if they take castor oil, it can jumpstart labour. This is found to be unverified. Castor oil may help if you are constipated and need to pass a bowel movement, but it’s not going to help you go into labour. According to the Health line, castor oil may cause irregular and painful contractions, which can be stressful to the mother and baby alike. This can lead to exhaustion. It may also cause your baby to pass meconium, or their first stool, before delivery. This can be problematic after birth. Charcoal
It has been the belief of some people that activated charcoal, often derived from coconut shells, is thought to trap and remove dangerous toxins from the body. It is often recommended for treating bloat and constipation. However, it is a terrible treatment. According to Dr. Kogan in The Medium, she discourages the use of activated charcoal for detoxification purposes. She says it is dangerous because it can cause life-threatening intestinal obstructions and severe dehydration. She further advises that eating well and drinking plenty of water can have similar, but safer, detoxification effects on the body. Vitamins
It has been constantly advised by doctors that you eat the right amount of food to get the required vitamins. Falling into the habit of trying to make up supposed deficiencies with supplements can quickly lead to trouble. The danger comes when people ignore the recommended doses and take too much of a particular vitamin. Too much Vitamin D, for instance, can cause liver and heart problems, while an overabundance of B6 can lead to nerve toxicity; a vitamin A overdose can even cause death in extreme cases. It is therefore to stick to doctor’s advice on required dosages when taking any medication. Saliva on cuts
Some parents are fond of putting saliva on cotton wool to clean their children’s cut as a quick remedy. Also, some children without adequate teaching lick their wounds to ensure blood clots. Blowing on or introducing saliva to a cut is very dangerous because our breath and saliva have tons of bacteria that can contaminate the wound and lead to an infection.
Instead, use freshwater and consult a doctor if needed. Gargling with mouthwash
Often, serious coughs and cold lead to inflamed throat or sore throat, whenever this happens; it is advisable to avoid gargling mouthwash in a bid to feel better. Gargling inflamed tonsils with mouthwash is actually very irritating to the area and does not have any effect on potential strep throat. Whenever there is a case for urgent treatment, especially at home, it is better to research on the effect of what you want to use before application. Also, do not forget to visit a doctor and explain in full whatever you must have used so the doctor can predict the right medications that will not cause other issues. Furthermore, avoid the use of saliva, unsterilized instrument, dirty water on open wounds or cuts so as to avoid bacterial infections and further issues. Always communicate with your doctor.