African Family Image Modion Communications It could be a cause of concern if a family member gets infected especially with children around. The main aim will be to ensure others are safe from the virus. According to The Health, below are some ways to protect your family members from getting infected: Avoid taking food directly from someone else
This includes food items, junks as well as plates or containers of food. People taking care of the infected person should leave them at the door to the separate room if you have one, or at the edge of the designated quarantine zone then back off. Though respiratory droplets seem to be the main way Covid-19 is spread, however, it has been confirmed that the virus can live on surfaces.
Ensure everyone around the infected person wears a mask and a glove. Set up a quarantine zone
To ensure safety, this should be a separate room. If that’s not possible, set up a quarantine zone at least six feet away from others in the household. Also, the patient and others in the household should practice good hygiene, like sneezing or coughing into a tissue and then disposing of it, if possible. Clean Always
Make sure every surface you touch in or out of the quarantine zone is disinfected. Assume the virus can be infectious on surfaces for at least 24 hours. According to Dr. Horovitz, The biggest areas are bathrooms and kitchens. Every surface that’s touched should be cleaned. That includes cloth so throw towels and clothes into the wash. If you don’t have any ready-made products like Lysol wipes or spray, dilute two-thirds of a cup of bleach in a gallon of water. It’s a perfectly good antimicrobial. If possible, use a different bathroom
If that’s not possible, you should take great care and clean the space after each visit. That’s because evidence suggests the virus may also spread through fecal matter. According to a February 2020 study publishing in the journal, Gastroenterology, it is found the infectious Covid-19 virus in the stool of 53.4 percent of 73 hospitalized Covid-19 patients. The researchers concluded that diarrhea is a more common symptom of the virus than previously thought. That means you could contract coronavirus if you come into contact with fecal matter and then touch your mouth. Designated Objects
The patient should have designated objects that no one uses. Objects such as remote control, phones, plates and so on. This is to ensure no one else can touch or use such objects which in turn prevents the spread of the virus. Disposable paper products can also work. Avoid sharing bed materials, games with people. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.