Adeola (left); Mr. Sumbo Adeogun; Mr. Adeniji; Major. Okegbemi and Vice President, Mr. Kola Isola, during the ‘Back to school’ event • Commissions Renovated School Hall, ICT Equipment, Science Laboratories
Members of old students association of Methodist High School (MHS), Arigbajo, Ogun State (MEHSOSAI) reminisced about old times, as the school marked its 55 anniversary. Founded on Friday, January 22, 1965, with 66 students and three staff members, the school became the first full-fledged Secondary School in Egba-Ifo District Local Council, which now comprises Ifo and Ewekoro councils. Its motto: “Education For Service” remains constant with the vision of the founding fathers to establish an institution that could build students with the traditions of academic excellence, moral uprightness and sports performance. The week-long event highlighted several activities, which included the ‘Back-to-school day,’ an assemblage of old students adorned in the school uniforms. During the grand finale, a number of projects were commissioned. Among them were: the renovated school hall, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) equipment, renovated Science Laboratory, white marker boards, renovated staff room, completion of perimeter fence, solar-powered light system, re-roofing of Block A and renovated S.S 2 Block, among others. President of the old students association, Alhaji Sokunbi Adeola, described the celebration as a joyous occasion filled with the joyful spirit of the past. “We pay special tribute to the elders and entire members of MEHSOSAI, who set a precedent by demonstrating commitment, unity and love. Our old students, staff and present students should establish and sustain an abiding relationship with the school. Let us donate out quota for the greater success and development of this great institution. One way of maintaining a continuous and unbroken relationship with MHS is for all stakeholders to ensure regular contact with the school.” Adeola, who appreciated individuals and sets that donated one project or the other to our school, said the target was to donate 55 projects to the school, even after the anniversary. He urged all the sets, individuals and friends, who were yet to key into the programme to partner with them to meet the target.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .