 House of Representatives is considering a bill that will grant immunity to principal officers of the legislative arm of government in the National Assembly. Photo; TWITTER/SPNIGERIA  Titled a “Bill for an Act to Alter Section 308 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 to Extend Immunity to Cover Presiding Officers of the of Legislative Institutions’’, its defenders contend that it would enable legislators to concentrate on their jobs without fear of persecution from the executive branch. At this time of our history when Nigerians are already questioning the practice of immunity for some officials of the executive branch, especially the state governors and their deputies, this is an insult to the collective intelligence of the people. 
 
Meanwhile, there are discordant tunes already emanating from the House itself. The speaker of the House has said that if the law must be passed, it should take effect from the next legislative assembly. Nigerians get reports of how legislators ask for bribes while carrying out oversight functions across the country. No institution is spared of their rapacious greed. Some vice-chancellors and chief executives of agencies of government have complained about greedy legislators each time they visit or consider budgetary allocations. In scorn and derisions, some Nigerians now refer to legislators as ‘legislooters’, a local coinage arising from the penchant for looting the communal till.  The same legislators unpatriotically rejected made-in-Nigeria luxury cars, which could have saved the nation millions of dollars in foreign exchange. On this matter, therefore, the wise proverbial saying of our elders come to bear: ‘we are calling you a thief, yet you are playing with the kid of a goat’! From its antecedents, the National Assembly has tragically become a house of scandals. 
 
It is preposterous, self-serving, selfish and immoral for legislators who already suffer low esteem in the eyes of Nigerians to further turn governance into a charade of monstrous proportions. Nigerians are angry that legislators earn outrageous salaries, inflated allowances, huge perks, and other incidentals very much out of tune with how ordinary Nigerians live. Infrastructure has virtually collapsed. Insecurity is ravaging the land and destroying lives. There is hunger in the land. There is anger in the land. There is uncertainty in the land. Yet, all legislators want are perks and more perks. Our legislators bask in the filth of vainglory and contempt of the people.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .