 Adesanya battling Robert Whittaker in their UFC 243 fight in Melbourne, Australia in October last year. He will face Cuba’s Yoel Romero today in Las Vegas, USA						Photo: dailymail.co.uk  Romero, a silver medalist for Cuba at the Sydney 2000 Olympics in freestyle wrestling, is one of the most feared fighters in UFC. Nobody wants to fight him but Adesanya feels he has what it takes to overpower the imposing Cuban wrestler/salsa dancer later today. To give Adesanya the support he needs, members of his family as well as large number of supporters and fans have arrived in Las Vegas.His father, Femi Adesanya told The Guardian in a telephone chat yesterday that Israel was in perfect condition ahead of the fight. “Israel has been in Las Vegas since on Sunday and we arrived here two days ago,” the senior Adesanya said. “A large number of his supporters and fans from different parts of the World are on ground here to cheer him to victory on Saturday (today). He continues: “Israel is aware of the expectations of his family, supporters and fans, and I am very optimistic he will deliver. He will try all within his power to overcome his opponent and win the fight,” Femi Adesanya, a native of Odogbolu, Ogun State stated. Romero will become the second main event fighter in less than two full fights to enter the bout coming off back-to-back losses.Adesanya, a kickboxer, has vowed to float like a butterfly and sting like a bee against Romero in today’s fight. “I’m a different guy,” Adesanya said on arrival in Las Vegas. “I’m a guy who seeks out the challenges. Yoel is coming off a three-fight losing streak; that’s not good for business.” Adesanya extended his perfect professional record to 18-0 as he dethroned UFC middleweight champion Robert Whittaker in spectacular fashion at UFC 243 in Melbourne, Australia in October last year. The Nigerian, who is known for his style of entering a fight arena with an acrobatic choreographed dance, produced a near-punch-perfect performance to finish Whittaker after three minutes and 33 seconds of the second round and capture the undisputed UFC middleweight title in front of nearly 60,000 fans at Marvel Stadium. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .