The deceased Fleeing 22-year-old Daniel Okocha, who allegedly stabbed his lover, Nkechi Agwor, to death, over suspicion that she was cheating on him, has been arrested in his hideout by detectives at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, SCIID, Yaba, Lagos. The incident occurred last Sunday at the live-in-lovers apartment in Egbeda area of Lagos. Trouble began and the love between the duo went sour when the suspect refused to allow the deceased, Nkechi, aged 20, to go to church last Sunday. When the deceased insisted, a quarrel ensued, which degenerated into a fight during which Daniel allegedly stabbed her with a knife in the neck and fled. When he was arrested, he admitted culpability. The suspect is presently being drilled at the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba. A police officer who spoke on the condition of anonymity, since he was not supposed to speak with the media, said: “Daniel has confessed to the murder. He told us that he killed his lover, because he was suspecting that she was cheating on him. “He told us that on the fateful day, Nkechi had told him that she was going to church, but he warned her to sit down at home as he suspected that she was having an appointment with another man who attends the same church with her. “He said when Nkechi refused to obey him and insisted that she was going to the church, he picked a fight with her and stabbed her several times. We believe he was telling a cock and bull stories because the message he typed in the deceased phone showed that he had the intention of killing her. “He wrote that he killed her and watched her die for 45 minutes. He went further to say, ‘I gave her life, but she refused to give me back’. With these statements, we are convinced that he planned and executed the killing. “The irony of the whole thing is that the two of them are from the same town, Ubulu-Uku in Aniocha-South Local Government Area of Delta State. Preliminary investigation showed that though they had one child, but they were not legally married. “We were told that the mother of the deceased is taking care of the child. We were told that the suspect was so possessive and jealous that at one time, he attempted to kill himself by drinking a poisonous substance, Snipper. We were told that it was the deceased that rushed him to the hospital where he was revived. After committing the dastardly act, Daniel took to his heels, but we extended our dragnets to all corners of the state. Our efforts paid off when he was picked up from his hideout in Lagos Island. The question we asked him was, where was he running to since the two of them came from the same town?” The father of the deceased, Mr. Innocent Agwor, said he wants justice to be served. “What I am asking from the government is justice. Whatever justice that befits such a murderer should be administered to him. I don’t need compensation because there is no amount of money that will be paid that will bring back my daughter. I want the suspect to face the consequence of his action and be charged for murder,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .