  The Ogun State Government yesterday shifted the statewide lockdown till Friday, April 3, 2020. But the government insisted that interstate and international borders remained closed. Governor Dapo Abiodun disclosed this yesterday while commissioning a 128-bed Isolation Centre in Ikenne, Ikenne Local Council of the state, for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in the state. The governor said the postponement became imperative to enable the state finalise the mechanism for the distribution of relief materials and food items ahead of the total lockdown. He also said that the COVID-19 test conducted on him to ascertain his health status came back negative. “After consultation with the Presidency, the interstate and international borders will close tonight at 11.00 p.m. as directed by the President. However, the total lockdown of the state will be effective from 11:00 p.m. on Friday, April 3, 2020. This is to enable us finalise the mechanism for the distribution of relief materials and food items ahead of the total lockdown,” he said. In another development, the Oyo State COVID-19 Security and Enforcement Sub-Committee has impounded 22 illegally parked vehicles at club-houses and public places in Ibadan during its special night operations last weekend. A statement on Sunday in Ibadan by the state’s Ministry of Information indicated that Chairman of the Oyo State Road Maintenance Agency (OYRTMA), Mr. Akin Fagbemi, said the operation was a pre-patrol to enforce the dusk-till-dawn curfew, which commences across the state on Sunday. According to the statement, the enforcement team dispersed clusters of persons that formed crowd of more than 10 at club-houses visited during the operation. “They also gave sufficient information on the need for residents to comply with the state government’s directives on social distancing, regular washing of hands and other guidelines. “   “The enforcement operation is aimed at curbing the spread of the COVID-19 among residents of the state, particularly through transport operators, night clubs and other public places,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .