The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing on Monday inaugurated an N180 million road rehabilitation project at Federal Polytechnic, Ede, Osun. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Mr Babatunde Fashola, the Minister for Works and Housing, said the Federal Government was currently rehabilitating 43 of such internal roads within tertiary institutions across the country. Fashola said to date, 18 out of the 43 roads had been completed as a critical contribution to support education in the country. Represented by Mr Hezekiah Kehinde, the Osun Federal Controller of Works and Housing, Fashola said 38 people were employed during the construction of the road which is about 2.0 kilometres. “It is undeniable that quality education will be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and learning environment. “Currently, there are 43 of such interventions in internal roads within tertiary institutions across Nigeria. “And the students are expressing renewed enthusiasm with regards to attending classes because some defectives roads have been restored to motor ability. “Those who doubt this should listen to some of the feedback from schools where this type of intervention has taken place. “While it is true that a lot still needed to be done in any sector of our national life, the Buhari-led government had stepped up to lead the process of getting work done. “The gap of our infrastructure needs is steadily being bridged by a gradual process of repairs, renewal, and construction on major highways and it has reached the schools,” the minister said. In his remarks, Dr John Adekolawole, the Rector of the institution, commended the Federal Government for the construction of the road. Represented by Alhaji Isiaka Adelabu, Deputy Rector (Administration), Adekolawole said the road was not motorable before the intervention of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. Students of the institution, who were present during the inauguration, said the road would ease their movement to their classrooms.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .