Drake with his son and baby mama | The Blast Drake recently had fans going wild after he shared photos of his 2-year-old son Adonis for the first time ever. In an Instagram post, the Canadian rapper shared photos of himself alongside Adonis and mother Sophie Sophie Brussaux. The 33-year-old “Take Care” rapper has now confirmed in an interview with Rao Radar that he had DNA tests done on Adonis to confirm he was his child. The interview was released in December last year and had Drake saying: “To be honest with you, I did a DNA test for my son and it came back to us and it said the DNA test got ruined in transit and they couldn’t be 100 per cent sure that that was my son or not. So, I was in a really weird pending situation where I didn’t want to go tell the world that that was my son and it wasn’t.” Drake and Adonis Drake alluded to his son’s pale skin, blue eyes and blond hair and laughed: “If you see my son you understand why.” “He’s a stunning child you know, with the brightest blue eyes and at the time I was like ‘I don’t know’. Drake previously explained why he had opted not to share pictures of his son’s face, but flouted that on Monday when he shared the snaps. “It actually wasn’t until a week before the album came out that I got confirmation that that was definitely my son.” The rapper then revealed: “It took me two more solid (DNA) tests with two different companies.” The “God’s Plan” rapper who initially kept his two-year-old child’s birth a secret, shared photos of the boy on Monday. In 2018, Drake referenced Adonis on the track ‘March 14’: “I wasn’t hiding my kid from the world, I was hiding the world from my kid.” In 2018, rapper Pusher T released a diss track entitled The Story of Adidon, in which he claimed Drake was hiding a secret child with a porn star. Having initially kept the news a secret, Drake confirmed he had fathered a child from a brief fling and opened up about fatherhood on his 2017 album Scorpion. Drake recently tested negative for coronavirus.