• Panic as returnee lawmaker, don evade quarantine
• Ban on okada, social, religious gatherings looms Kogi State government has said that seven persons are already on compulsory self-isolation in the state as part of measures to curtail the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). The Commissioner of Health, Saka Haruna, said that the state’s COVID-19 monitoring team would monitor the seven very closely. Haruna, who did not give the names of the affected persons, said that they had to be kept away because they had just returned from high-risk countries. He added that the state’s Ministry of Health had distributed hand-washing materials to some markets, communities and government offices in Lokoja. There was panic in Lokoja yesterday, as the news went round that one of the state’s lawmakers and two lecturers who just returned from the United State refused to be quarantined for 14 days as ordered by the Federal Government. Instead, they were seen in public places. Balogun Bello representing Ajaokuta in the House of Assembly was said to have arrived the country by the weekend and was spotted at a popular restaurant, Missi T, on Sunday afternoon and later at the Lokoja night club in the company of some friends. At press time, the lawmaker is still said to be moving freely around the state with nobody daring to confront him to do the needful. However, residents have called on Governor Yahaya Bello and other relevant agencies to call the lawmaker and the lecturer to order. Meanwhile. the COVID-19 Squadron Committee put in place by Bello has put in place necessary machinery to ban commercial motorcycles (okada) in the state to stop people from leaving their homes indiscriminately. The Commissioner for Information and Communication, Kingsley Fanwo, noted that the committee agreed that the pandemic was more serious than earlier thought; hence the need to deal with it with all the seriousness and commitment it deserves. He said the committee had established that there was no confirmed case of COVID-19 in the state, adding that the committee had also resolved to ban all forms of social or religious gatherings.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .