The Nigerian National Summit Group (NNSG) and Kaduna State chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have called on politicians to concentrate energies on how the country will survive the danger of the coronavirus epidemic, crisis of poverty, insecurity among other pressing challenges instead of dissipating their energies on how to win the 2023 general elections. NNSG and CAN expressed displeasure that despite the fact that 2023 is still about three years away, “It was sad that what is currently happening in the country indicates desperation of Nigerian political leaders about the next election instead of facing how to solve current problems.” In separate interactions with The Guardian yesterday, Executive Secretary, NNSG, Mr. Tony Uranta, and Chairman of Kaduna State CAN, Reverend John Joseph Hayab, said political leaders should think more about how to position the country to address the far-reaching socio-economic and other challenges instead of the furious intrigues to retain or take power in 2023. To NNSG, those concentrating on power issues, tussles ahead of 2023 should rather focus on how Nigeria can survive as a nation beyond October 2020. According to Uranta, “We are more worried about the existence of Nigeria beyond 2020 rather than who and where the president should come from in 2023. There is need for every Nigerian, especially politicians, to worry more about the country and the people they intended to lead in 2023 rather than zoning or power rotation. With what is playing out now in Nigeria and the level of insecurity nationwide, anything can happen to splinter the country.” The group warned that the country might implode if equity, justice and fairness continued to elude citizens, stressing, “We as leaders should be more concerned about these issues that threaten the very fabrics of our existence. 2023 is far and near though. The first concern should be living beyond 2020 and addressing the core issues that will guarantee the nation’s survival, including security and agitations for balance in the system.” The group re-emphasised on restructuring along regional lines, noting, “Restructuring will end agitations for balance and will allow regions to grow and develop at their pace,” he said. On the security outfit Operation Amotekun initiated by Southwest governors, the NNSG scribe said there was need to sustain the tempo nationwide to assist in containing the security breaches that might be the bane of the nation’s existence. Hayab pleaded with Nigerian leaders to take the issue of coronavirus, insecurity and poverty with all seriousness “if they want the country to survive.” The cleric said, “If our leaders continue to dissipate energies on politics of 2023 at the expense of the possible dangers of the global pandemic, the consequences may be more poverty as we are already experiencing in escalating insecurity. All hands must be on the deck to do the needful now.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .