– Says APC deceives Nigerians on restructuring The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-West Zone yesterday vowed to sweep away the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the region in the coming 2023 elections. The PDP leaders stated this while receiving scores of defectors across the six states of the zone from various parties, including the APC, African Democratic Congress (ADC) and others at the historic Mapo Hall, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The programme, which was tagged PDP South-West zonal unification rally, was witnessed by the party leaders, including Chief Olabode George, Chief Eddy Olafeso, Chief Shuabi Oyedokun, former Governor Ayodele Fayose, among others. Austin Akobundu, who is the party’s Organising National Secretary, represented the National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, while Governor Douye Diri of Bayelsa State was also present. The defectors, who were received by the party leaders, include Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Ambassador Taofeek Arapaja, Ademola Ige, Fatai Akinbade and others. Oyinlola, who spoke in the Yoruba language laced with parables, said the ruling APC deceived the South-West with restructuring, adding: “Now, those in the leadership of the country are not doing the right things. There is a square peg in a round hole. They deceived us in the South-West with restructuring. When it was time for them to implement restructuring, they said they did not know the meaning of restructuring. “Second, there is greed in their attitude because when the former Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, left office, she was replaced with a northerner. When they removed Ayo Oke (former Director-General of National Intelligence Agency), they replaced him with a northerner. Because of all these, I want our people to know that it is time for a restructuring of politics in South-West. We can’t be working like an elephant and be eating like an ant. Too much wisdom is dangerous. Don’t let us be too wise. I pray all things stolen from the PDP will be restored.” On his part, George said: “The art of politics in the Western Zone started from here. When you are going on a journey, go back to the heart of the source so that you can get the blessing.  Today, we are ready and ready and ready to sweep the whole of South-West. I’m sure that would be the same thing all over the country. We are trying to invoke the spirit of Almighty that put this Mapo Hall here. To me, it is a beautiful beginning. We won’t rest on our oars. Gbadamosi, who was the 2019 governorship candidate of the ADP in Lagos State, said the PDP must stop slavery going on in Lagos under the APC-led successive governments in the past 20 years. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State said: “They said the rally should not hold because of Coronavirus. It is their party that is infected with Coronavirus. This is the beginning of unity in South-West. PDP is ready to do things according to the rule of law.” Former Deputy Governor of Osun State and former Minister of State for Defence, Erelu Olusola Obada, said: “We thank God that PDP has returned to South-West. I’m happy today because Oyinlola is returning to PDP.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .