• Armed bandits slaughter four, kidnap three in Kaduna
• Bello gives security aides ultimatum to rid Kogi of criminals Suspected Boko Haram terrorists on motorcycles and gun trucks attacked Ngururi community and killed three people in Jere Council of Borno State. The terrorists also torched several houses and other property before fleeing towards Alau Dam en route Sambisa Forest. Confirming the incident yesterday in Maiduguri, Bulama Yuram, a survivor who fled to Dalori camp, said his car and other personal effects were set ablaze by the bandits. He said the terrorists emerged from the Dalori axis to attack Ngururi about 11 p.m. on Saturday. On the injured, he said:  “Five villagers have been evacuated to the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) for treatment. Again, armed bandits, yesterday killed four people in Birnin-Gwari Council of Kaduna State, just as they kidnapped three, including an infant. The gunmen were said to have struck in Ungwar Yaku village in the council where they unleashed terror. One of the natives, Abubaker Garbage, told The Guardian on the telephone yesterday, “This (Sunday) evening, several bandits invaded the village in Birnin-Gwari and started shooting. They killed three people. “This problem started on Saturday, around 3.30 p.m. when bandits invaded the Birnin-Gwari/Kaduna highway and kidnapped three people and killed one person. My brother is one of those kidnapped.” Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mohammed Jalige, confirmed the incident. “The driver of a commercial vehicle was killed and three people were kidnapped.” In a related development, Kogi state Governor Yahaya Bello has given the newly appointed senior special assistants on security matters in the 21 councils of the state eight weeks to get rid of criminals. Bello gave the order while inaugurating the appointees at Lugard House in Lokoja. He said his government could no longer stand and watch kidnappers, armed robbers and other criminals terrorise the people. “We are experiencing some pockets of crimes such as armed robbery, kidnapping, armed banditry and others. This is an acid test for each and every one of you. You should not spare anyone. Anyone carrying a gun in the bushes is a criminal and should be treated as such,” Bello said. He charged the SSAs to chase the criminals away and return the state to its position as the most secured state in the country within the time frame. Cautioned political thugs to have a rethink, as the long arm would be extended to them if caught, the governor vowed to deal ruthlessly with any criminal no matter their position country without considering party affiliation. He urged the aides to work closely with the police and other relevant security agencies and report directly to him through his chief of staff, Jamiu Asuku. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .