Uche Jombo | Twitter Nollywood actress Uche Jombo has come under bashing from President Muhammadu Buhari’s media aide Tolu Ogunlesi and other Nigerian Twitter users over comments the screen star made about novel coronavirus. The actress in a bid to educate Nigerian had wrongly misinformed them in a now-deleted tweet in which she asked them to educate themselves on coronavirus. The actress tweeted: “Reading up on #CoronavirusOutbreak
We should all collectively do so before the government use this to disappear the newly borrowed money
For example: the virus CAN NOT survive in a HOT environment.
Still reading ….. please do so too and be safe / cautious out there.” However, Nigerian Twitter users were quick to point out that the link she posted stressed that coronavirus not being able to survive in hot conditions is speculation. Furthermore, the same article which she wrongfully misquoted also has scientists cautioning people as the virus is still new to Africa. Many slammed the actress for using the word “CANNOT” with several insults hurled at her for the misinformation as well as tackling the government’s release of funds to combat the virus. Uche Jombo | Twitter Further tweets from her also alleged that there is no “testing” at Nigerian airports to detect if travelers are infected with the virus that has affected thousands over the globe. According to her, she picked up someone at the airport yesterday and there was no screening. A Twitter user in reaction shared photos and videos of screenings at the airport to debunk Jombo’s claim. Also, Jubril Gawat, the Senior Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu on New Media replied Jombo by querying how passengers will be tested for Coronavirus at the airport. Gawat’s tweet was to emphasise that health workers screen just passengers’ temperature at the airport not coronavirus test. Another tweet from her that raised Nigerian Twitter users’ angst against her is when she wrote that the N620 million released to fight coronavirus is a ploy to loot funds as 1% of the money can help equip hospitals properly. She tweeted: “Imagine just 1% of the money injected into our healthcare system nationwide. Equipping hospitals properly.” On this, she was schooled about foreign countries like US releasing funds running into millions of dollars to fight the virus with the N620 million Nigeria released a paltry sum compared to the over $8 million US reeased. Also reacting to Jombo’s tweets is Ogunlesi who took to his Twitter page to berate the Nollywood actress for not using her platform responsibly and setting back the federal government’s efforts in containing the outbreak of the disease. In his tweet, Ogunlesi wrote: “What are you reading? Why is a celebrity confidently sharing medical information that is speculative at best? Do you know the damage you’re doing to efforts to contain the outbreak, with conspiracy theories? Should you not be using your platform more responsibly?” Check out other reactions to Jombo’s tweet below: @femiadebimpe your friend @uchejombo lied that coronavirus can't survive in Nigeria. She lied again no thermal scanners at our airport's. You see why I say take away their celeb status you find out many of them are numbskulls. She's a good actor, sweet body  but a dumbo jombo. pic.twitter.com/lW9I7YAifj — Chief Ojukwu (@ChiefOjukwu) March 10, 2020  Please shut up!!! Just shut up for once. So far the govt has handled the outbreak so well that it attracted the commendation of WHO and other countries. Would it kill u if u just acknowledge this? — Maj. General Nero Sam (@nero7615) March 10, 2020  They were actually disappointed at the way Nigeria is handling the #coronavirus issue. The commendation Nigeria is getting is way too much for them. So, the best they can do is to discredit the whole issue. They wanted to mock us but ended being mocked. God pass them. — SorIdAlIsm is my name (@soridalism) March 10, 2020  If she want to advocate for revamping of our health system,many of us will be here to cheer her up. But confusing prevention of rampaging epidemic with #620m health care revamp shows how dull she is. — PositiveMantra   (@skaalbgroup) March 10, 2020  You pipu are just shouting on top this poor woman’s head forgetting she’s from Nollywood, do you know how many films 1% of N620M will produce in Nollywood? Probably 620 films…don’t mind them, dear https://t.co/WazHXijjjG — Souljah (@jeffphilips1) March 10, 2020  Wait uche, why are you blocking people that are trying to enlighten your ignorance? If you goof allow people correct you. "World is not war", you be my best and sweetest actress o. Abeg! no fall hand. Abeg — Major General Oma 'Loogun Liyetu (@korllyybobo) March 10, 2020  Which Airport did you pock the Person from? Many have been commending the screenings at our Airports but here you are saying no additional screenings!! — JOHNSON A E (@SOLAJOHNSON) March 10, 2020  As a celebrity it’s okay not to talk about every thing — Ormotee maykupin (@hormorty) March 10, 2020 