Despite several measures put in place to mitigate the spread of coronavirus in Kano, the facility designated as isolation centre, cited at Yargaya village in Dawakin Kudu local government, is in disrepair not suitable for human habitation. Although there is no suspected case of the deadly virus yet in Kano, a visit to the cottage yard, about 12kilometers away from Kano metropolis, indicated zero preparedness of Kano to confront any outbreak that could be devastated. The eight-room bungalow building has only four beds with no medical facility. Although there was a generating set and abandon ambulance, they did not look like they have been used recently. The centre established since 2014 has no power supply as at the time of the visit and no trace of water supply. The isolation centre is bereaved of minimum health worker require to manage a disease outbreak. There was neither a medical doctor nor a trained nurse at the center. Commissioner for health in Kano, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa had told journalists that the government has approved millions of naira to upgrade the centre. The commissioner recently declined to disclose the amount government committed to fighting the virus, he, however, said an approval was given to purchase personal protective equipment among other resources. Besides, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje inaugurated a task force headed by Deputy Governor, Nasiru Gawuna, and co-chair by consultant Public Health Physician, Professor Abdulrazaq Garba Habeeb, to develop preventive measures against and enable veritable to manage the deadly virus in Kano. All these proactive measures were accompanied by a stay-at-home directive for civil servants, the lockdown of all event centres, cancellation of public gatherings of more than 30 population as well as the closure of all academic centres in the state. Contrary to government declaration, a visit to the center by our correspondent indicated there was no facility to suggest the centre is ready to accommodate any patient. Efforts to speak with the commissioner for health was not successful as he insisted he was not disposable. “You can see that I have no time to listen to you. They are waiting for me at Government House. we are having a meeting, therefore I’m sorry”, the commissioner said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .