Residents carry their shopping across Via del Corso in central Rome on March 12, 2020, as Italy shut all stores except for pharmacies and food shops in a desperate bid to halt the spread of a coronavirus. (Photo by Vincenzo PINTO / AFP) Authorities in Italy have warned that anyone with symptoms of coronavirus could face murder charges if they refuse to self-isolate. Italian media reports that those who have a fever over 37.5 degrees, cough, cold and other symptoms associated with coronavirus must go into self-isolation and report it to the attending physician or the ASL. If they do not and were to infect someone else which leads to death, they would be charged with malicious murder, under penalty of imprisonment of up to 21 years. The same thing goes for those who suspect that they are sick but continue to have social relationships without taking precautions. Italy has embarked on a number of extreme measures in its fight against COVID-19 as the country’s death toll from the coronavirus outbreak rose by 31% in the space of 24 hours to a total of 827. Aljazeera reports that, during a press conference on Wednesday evening, Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte announced a new wave of increased restrictions all shops, bars and restaurants across the country to close as Italy enters day three of an unprecedented national lockdown. “Thank you to all Italians who make sacrifices. We are proving to be a great nation,” Conte said in the nine-minute broadcast to the nation. “We will only be able to see the effects of this great effort in a couple of weeks.“ The latest measures will take effect from Thursday and remain in place until March 25, the prime minister’s office said. Conte on Monday extended a travel ban from Lombardy to the entire country. He asked people to “stay at home” and banned all public gatherings. Italians moving around must sign a form self-certifying that they are travelling for “proven work needs,’’ situations of necessity, to buy drugs or to return home. “There is no more time. I will take responsibility for these measures. Our future is in our hands,” he told reporters.