 Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Photo: TWITTER/OSCARNONYEAMA  In Nigeria, NSE market capitalisation crashed from an all-time high of N13.5trillion in March 2008, to less than N4.6trillion by the second week of January 2009. Similarly, the All-share index plummeted from about 66,000 points to less than 22,000 points in the same period. Many investors experienced investment depletion, while prospective shareholders were scared of investing in the market
 
The lull in activities in stock markets implied that companies experienced difficulties in accessing funds to grow their businesses. Also, it became unattractive for businesses to raise additional capital for expansion by selling shares in a public market, as it would most likely be under-subscribed.  Since the crisis, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has undertaken a number of initiatives to boost investors’ confidence notably, the establishment of the National Investors Protection Fund (NTPF), to cushion the adverse effect of losses suffered in the capital market, and the e-dividend policy designed to minimise cases of unclaimed dividend.  While market regulators and other stakeholders though commended the Act, but they still believe that there is a need for more palliatives to jumpstart more listing on the local bourse in 2020.
  
Specifically, the Acting Director-General, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, in a recent forum, in Lagos, said although the Finance Act of 2019 has provided some initiatives that are in support of the capital market, there should be more tax incentives to encourage the flow of capital into the market.  “The government has through the Finance Act answered some of our prayers. There are others that we thought they would have done like the issue of taxes, but they gave us what they thought we should have. We will continue to push for more tax reductions in different areas,” she said.  Agreeing with her, stockbrokers under the aegis of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), also stressed the need for the government to offer greater tax incentives to companies and individuals in accordance with their levels of savings and investments in formal and recognised outlets.  “Federal Government should institutionalise the funding framework for Capital Market Literacy (CML) in Nigeria, by financially empowering CML-oriented bodies, as is done in France, through the IEFP. The Tertiary Education Trust Fund (Tetfund), should allocate a portion of its fund to the Capital Market Literacy (CML) drive, and to the CIS in particular.
 
‘As banks control almost the entire liquidity in the Nigerian financial system, they should support capital market investments, including re-introduction of margin lending with improved regulations. The CBN, being the dominant institution that currently provides liquidity support for critical economic sectors, should extend its liquidity support to the capital market, including the equity segment.
 
“The Federal Government should direct Pension Funds in Nigeria to look beyond fixed-income investments and also invest substantially in the equities market for liquidity and stability purposes.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .