Ogiemwonyi declares support for embattled APC The Niger Delta Leaders and Stakeholders Forum (NDLSF) yesterday alleged that a cabal nursing presidential ambition in 2023 is orchestrating the crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Canvassing support for the embattled National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, the group cautioned that the lingering crisis in the party could affect its fortunes in the 2023 general elections. At a meeting attended by traditional rulers, opinion leaders and youth groups in Tuomo, Delta State, convened by Chief Mike Loyibo, the Traditional Prime Minister of Tuomo Kingdom, Bomadi Council Area, the leaders sought early resolution of the crisis and urged all parties to sheath their swords. It commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his faith and confidence in Oshiomole’s leadership, stressing that the party was stronger under him. In a communiqué signed by Loyibo and Chief Wellington Okrika, they said Oshiomhole had been wrongly profiled and persecuted by a cabal within the party. They revealed that the cabal comprised some aggrieved APC governors who have presidential ambition in 2023 and have portrayed Oshiomhole as a stumbling block to the realisation of their dreams. “So infantile is their claim that they have forgotten that Oshiomhole’s tenure as National Chairman ends in 2022. Oshiomhole is one of the best we have in the region and so, we will not allow any cabal to disgrace him. “As a group, we pass a vote of confidence in his leadership and we want to state clearly that we will stand by our son and resist any attempt to unjustly remove him from office,” the communiqué stated. Meanwhile, former Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship aspirant in Edo Chris Ogiemwonyi has said Oshiomhole would come out stronger in spite of the gang up against him by political friends and foes. He said all those plotting Oshiomhole’s removal as National Chairman of the APC were ingrates, particularly having been beneficiaries of his large- heartedness. Ogiemwonyi added that Oshiomhole has been betrayed by his political friends including persons he empowered and favoured during his time as governor and as National Chairman of APC, adding that he was loved by many for his understanding and generosity, as well as his contributions to nation building. On the crisis rocking the state chapter of APC, Ogiemwonyi said leaders and stakeholders of the party were desperately waiting for the reconciliation committee headed Chief Bisi Akande. “I always believe in reconciliation. I want to thank President Buhari for inaugurating the Chief Bisi Akande APC National Reconciliation Committee. My prayer is that we need a strong party before the elections. I urge Governor Godwin Obaseki and Oshiomhole to embrace peace.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .