 Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS)  president, Mohammed Abba Tor (left) presenting gifts to Nigerian Society of Engineers president, Babagana Mohammed while other officials look on at theNSE headquarters in Abuja.  Abba Tor who led a delegation of the leadership of the institute on a courtesy visit to NSE headquarters in Abuja, called for synergy and collaboration between professionals in the industry, particularly between quantity surveyors and engineers. While congratulating NSE President and the newly elected executives of the society on their election, President Abba Tor, noted that there was a need to leverage on the synergy and platform created by the Construction Industry Development Initiative (CIDI) by organizing a Construction Summit. This Summit, according to him, will be jointly planned and organized by the seven professional bodies in the built environment. “Construction professionals in the built environment in Nigeria need to jointly advocate for: Full participation of Nigerian professionals in policy formulation and implementation for development of Infrastructure in Nigeria, collaboration between the professionals in the industry for enhanced service delivery and strategic alliance between professionals for multidisciplinary practices”, he explained. Abba Tor stated that the institute was working on a blueprint for the summit. He further cited inadequate government patronage of Nigerian construction professionals, dominance of foreign companies in the construction industry as well as inadequate involvement of Nigerian professionals in development infrastructure as some of the drawbacks of Nigeria’s landmark projects. Responding, NSE President thanked the Abba Tor for the visit, assuring the institute of the continued support and collaboration of engineers. The high point of the event was the presentation of gifts to NSE President by NIQS President on behalf of the institute, a gesture, which was also reciprocated by the society. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .