Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has said that the state would soon get a centre for the test of the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19). Dropping the hint yesterday, Lalong stated that the measure was in continuation of efforts to contain the disease and stop it from spreading to state. He said he had met with more stakeholders to mitigate the impact of the pandemic in the state. Some of the stakeholders that met with the governor at the Government House, Little Rayfield, Jos, include the leadership of the House of Assembly and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Lalong, who also chairs the state’s COVID-19 Emergency Response Task Force, said the meeting became necessary to carry everyone along in the fight against the disease. His words, “We are dealing with an abnormal situation and so we need to take drastic measures to protect the lives of the citizens. “We have already put in place various measures to ensure that the disease does not come into Plateau. Thankfully, there is no recorded case yet and we pray that it remains so. However, we must work hard to keep things this way.” The governor observed that there was also a need to work with the legislature and the ruling party in the state to look at the socio-political impact of the disease. Earlier, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nimkong Lar, had briefed the stakeholders on the effectiveness of the preventive measures already taken, such as contact tracing, markets closure, monitoring and checks at entry points to the state, as well as public enlightenment. While noting that Plateau citizens that were being sensitised were cooperating with measures put in place, the commissioner explained that the old Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) had been earmarked as an isolation centre and that the government would purchase more ventilators, drugs and other essentials to combat the disease. Chairman of the Plateau State Economic Team, Ezekiel Gomos, said in his report to the stakeholders that the state’s revenue had been hugely impacted, stressing that that would make the execution of programmes and projects very difficult.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .