The Nigeria Customs Service, (NCS), has declared strict enforcement of the new Executive Order from the Federal Government on total closure of all land borders in the country. The Federal Government issued the directive on Monday to prevent further spread of the deadly coronavirus. The Customs Public Relations Officer and spokesperson for Operation Swift Response, Joseph Attah, who stated this on a television programme, said officers are already on ground and fully equipped to enforce the order. He said: “Customs operatives are alert on their duty posts, at land borders, seaports and airports to enforce government directives accordingly. So, these areas are well manned by our officers.” According to him, the new order now is on total closure of land borders, “So, no movement of people coming in, or going out through the land borders.” Attah emphasised: “This is total lockdown and we must ensure that things that can endanger our lives and security are not allowed into the country”. Responding to questions on measures to protect officers on duty, he explained, “We have hand- gloves, sanitisers and
necessary items needed for safety.” On the attitude of Nigerians regarding these restrictions by government, he said: “The reality is that everyone has a natural instinct to protect his life. As such, we expect all Nigerians to comply with these directives and cooperate fully to tackle this epidemic”. Meanwhile, the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF) may call out its members operating at ports and borders from today (Wednesday). The Founder of NAGAFF, Boniface Aniebonam said the group would hold an emergency meeting of the National Executive Council to take swift decision on the matter relating to coronavirus pandemic. His words: “We may call out our members operating at the Customs ports and border stations of Nigeria, starting from Wednesday March 25, 2020”. He added that, “the policy directive of the Federal Government on matters of social distancing is imperative at this moment. “If we must survive the scourge of COVID-19 ravaging the entire globe, we must comply fully with the Executive Order from government”. He said: “Freight forwarders and other Nigerians have to be alive to attend to social and spiritual responsibilities,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .