Image: Budrul Chukrut/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images In the wake of the global health crisis as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, countries are enforcing a lock-down thereby forcing millions of people to self-isolate or work from home. As the lock-downs are in effect, adult entertainment site Pornhub reported an unprecedented surge in traffic to its website. Pornhub on Monday published a report titled “Coronavirus Insights”. In the report, the site reviewed how the outbreak of Coronavirus has impacted the daily level of traffic on the adult site. Image: Pornhub.com On March 12, Pornhub offered its free Premium service to all of Italy, an offer that was clearly well-received by home-bound Italians as the platform experienced a drastic increase of 57% from the country. Italy has been the worst-affected country in Europe by the outbreak of coronavirus. On March 19, Italy became the country with the highest number of confirmed deaths in the world. As of 25th of March, 2020, Italy is world’s centre of active coronavirus cases with 57,521 active cases. The total of confirmed cases is 74,386, with 7,503 deaths, and 9,362 recoveries. On March 17, Pornhub likewise extended its free premium service to France and Spain. Following the announcement, traffic from both countries increased by 38.2% and 61.3%, respectively. According to the statistics, worldwide traffic to Pornhub went up 11.6% on March 17th. The pandemic has also inspired people to search for content related to the deadly virus. The platform revealed that in the past 30 days more than 9.1 million searches containing either “corona” or “covid”. Searches peaked on March 5th at 1.5 million. Searches containing “coronavirus” and “corona virus” first appeared on January 25th and continued to grow. When compared to the rest of the world, visitors from Slovakia are 119% more likely to search for Coronavirus, followed by Bulgaria and Ireland (both 88%). Comparatively, American visitors are only 10% more likely to search for coronavirus porn when compared to the worldwide average. In a bid to encourage more people to stay at home so as to curb the spread of the virus, Pornhub on Tuesday, 24th of March announced that it has extended its free premium service worldwide. “Stay home and help flatten the curve! Since COVID-19 continues to impact us all, Pornhub has decided to extend Free Pornhub Premium worldwide until April 23rd. So enjoy, stay home, and stay safe.”