Timothy Hutton Photo by Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP/Shutterstock Sera Johnston, a 50-year-old woman has come out to accuse Oscar-winning actor, Timothy Hutton of raping her when she was 14-year-old. She alleges that Hutton raped her in a hotel room when she was 14 and still in braces according to the report by Buzzfeed News. Johnston claims that she and two of her junior-high-school girlfriends met Hutton in 1983, three years after his star turn in the flick “Ordinary People” while hanging out at a Vancouver, Canada, restaurant. Hutton invited them back to his hotel along with some of his 20-something pals. Johnston, who reported the incident to cops last year, said she and her friends went to his room, where he and his male buddies offered them drinks and Hutton, now 59, soon sat down next to her. In her word: He was getting very close to me, like, you know, really kind of sidling up to me and petting my legs and stuff,” Johnston told the site. “I was just, like, ‘I think this is going to be bad. I was really wrong about this.’ Johnston said Hutton eventually led her to his bedroom, where he asked if she’d ever had sex. One of his friends came into the room at this point. She further claims that Hutton raped her, and his unnamed friend forced her to perform oral sex on him. The other man is not named. Johnston reported the alleged incident to Vancouver cops last year amid the #MeToo movement, and her current lawyer claimed that she has been in “regular contact” with them. However, the award-winning actor has debunked this claim. He, through his lawyer, has said the claims are false. According to the statement: I will not spend one more minute dignifying these allegations as they are patently false and designed only to extort money from him. The statement further says that the story is “fabricated, patently false, scurrilous, and defamatory” and claims that Johnston had fabricated a “made-up sexual encounter that supposedly occurred 36 years ago”. Hutton’s lawyers have rebutted Johnston’s claims in a 91-page letter, insisting that she is not credible and accusing her of lying. At the time of the alleged incident, Hutton was in Vancouver filming the movie Iceman. Two years prior he had won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his film debut, Ordinary People. His other credits include the TV series Leverage and The Haunting of Hill House as well as films All the Money in the World and Beautiful Boy. However, Buzzfeed claims that an ex-boyfriend of Johnston’s additionally reached out to Hutton’s unnamed friend, who Johnston claimed also participated in her rape, in March 2019, in an attempt to personally broker a settlement. It has been further gathered that Johnston’s claims were corroborated by one of the two friends with whom she visited Hutton’s hotel room, who signed an affidavit, under penalty of perjury, that supported Johnston’s allegations. Five other people were also contacted by Buzzfeed, who each said that they had previously been informed of Johnston’s claims.