The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has assured Ekiti State government of its readiness to partner with the state on its agro-allied airport project.
Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, who disclosed this during a visit to Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, reiterated NAF’s readiness to establish a security unit at the airport when it becomes fully operational. Abubakar, who together with top officials of the NAF had a meeting with Fayemi and his team, said the visit was in continuation of the meeting the governor had with him at the Force Headquarters in Abuja last month in respect of the cargo airport. He said the Force would do everything humanly possible to ensure that the country is secured.He said President Muhammadu Buhari was passionate about the security of the country, adding that this accounted for the establishment of about 13 units of the Force in different parts of the country. This, he said, was in addition to the acquisition of more aircraft in the fleet. “I am very excited with this idea of a cargo airport in Ekiti. The potentials are enormous and I want to assure you again that the Nigeria Air Force will be most willing to be part of this. That is why we have everybody that is relevant to this here. In this entourage, we have Chief of General Operations that deals with the issue of flying; we have the Chief of Logistics who will look into the issue of ensuring that we get an apron and making sure that we have a small unit that takes care of the airport by the time it is fully operational. “We also have the Director of Air Traffic Services who is also here to look into all the logistics relating to air traffic services. So, I want to assure Your Excellency, the government and good people of Ekiti State, that the Nigeria Air Force is ready to work with you to ensure that you achieve the objective of the airport,” he said. Fayemi had earlier disclosed that the establishment of the cargo airport would not only trigger local economy but also provide support for the utilisation of the medical and biomedical resources available in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .