• As 134 communities benefit from CSDP projects
Akwa Ibom State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Uwemedimo Nwoko, has demanded the resignation of the Commissioner of Police (CP), Imohimi Edgal for interfering with judicial process and violation of court order. He made this call in Uyo yesterday, saying Edgal should also be prosecuted for flouting a court order, which directed him to commit an accused person, Leo Ekpenyong, to the Correctional Service Centre pending the next adjourned date of March 23, 2020. Nwoko alleged that the CP aided release of the accused person, who was ordered remanded at the Uyo Correctional Centre for libel, false publication and terrorism after medical treatment in any government hospital. “Director of Public Prosecutions and Officer in Charge of Legal and the court officials took Ekpenyong to the Police Hospital, Uyo for medical attention, but while the team was at the Police clinic, the CP called O/C Legal and ordered him to bring the accused person to his office. “When the accused person was taken to his office, Edgal apologised to the accused person and ordered that all his phones should be returned to him. “The commissioner then set aside the opinion of the first doctor that examined Ekpenyong, which concluded that there was nothing wrong with the accused person and that he should be taken to the Correctional facility. “The CP own set up another medical team to re-examine the accused person and gave him a report also freed him after returning his five handsets to him and allowed to parade the Police Headquarters freely. “In violation of the court order, the CP also released the accused person instead of sending him to the Correctional Facility as ordered by the court,” he alleged. However, as at the time of filling this report, Edgal failed to respond to calls or text message to his mobile telephone. Meanwhile, Commissioner for Economic Development and Ibom Deep Seaport, Akan Okon, has disclosed that the Akwa Ibom Community and Social Development Projects (CSDP) intervened in 134 communities to enhance their infrastructure development. He disclosed this yesterday when the World Bank Task Team visited the state to access CSDP’s infrastructure development Okon, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Effiong Ekpenyong, said the agency also intervened in eight vulnerable groups across the state to improve the people’s welfare. “The ministry has closely supervised the agency, which has facilitated provision of people-oriented social infrastructure in education, health and environment of the benefiting communities. “It also carries out periodic monitoring of all CSDP activities in the state,” he added, assuring that government would continue to support the CSDP and ensure payment of its counterpart funding. Okon commended the World Bank Team for its commitment to finance communities’ development and add value to the rural people. Responding, World Bank Task Team Leader, Professor Foluso Okunmadewa, commended the state for payment of its counterpart funding and applauded the agency in rural infrastructure development of the communities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .