Babatunde Fashola, the Minister of Works and Housing says the Federal Government’s development of infrastructures in tertiary institutions across the country is effective. Fashola disclosed this on Friday in Abuja in a statement issued by Mrs Boade Akinola, the Director, Press and Public Relations in the ministry. He made the remarks during handing over ceremony of rehabilitated 2.45 kilometres internal roads by the ministry to the Rector of the Federal Polytechnic Kaura Namoda, Zamfara State. Fashola explained that the feedback he got from students across the tertiary institutions shows the intervention was effective. The minister, who was represented by the Federal Controller of Works, Zamfara, Mr Hassan Muhammed, said it’s indisputable that the quality of education would be impacted by the quality of infrastructure and the learning environment. He said that the Federal Government’s intervention in the development of infrastructure in tertiary institutions to boost quality education has given students renewed hope and enthusiasm. He said those who doubt should simply listen to some of the feedback from the students of the schools where the intervention had already taken place. According to  Fashola, the summary of all the feedback from students demonstrated that the gap of the nation’s infrastructural needs was being bridged by a gradual process of repairs and construction on major highways and schools. He said there are forty-three of such interventions in internal roads within tertiary institutions across Nigeria. In his response, Rector of the polytechnic Mr Yahaya Bande said that the school which was established thirty-six years ago had suffered deplorable road condition, especially during the rainy season. “We have it on our memory how we used to suffer on these roads during the rainy season, but today, the story has changed. “We thank President Muhammadu Buhari for remembering us,” he said. The rector, however, promised to help maintain the roads and put them to good use. The President of the Students Union Government, Polytechnic, Mr Ali Abdulmalik said the federal government’s intervention in the internal roads of the institution had been a big blessing to the students and management. “We are very happy that the roads have been fixed because of the sandy nature of the roads before the intervention and students usually fall from bikes. We have recorded a lot of accidents on these roads.” Reiterating Abdulmalik’s position, the Vice President of the Students Union, Miss Hannah Obinna also expressed her happiness over the completion of the project in her time. “We thank President Buhari and the Honourable Minister for making this happen. “It will attract more students to the school, we have been posting the pictures of the roads on our social media platforms to serve as an encouragement to would-be students of the institution.” News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Federal Government had completed eighteen out of the forty-three of which Federal Polytechnic Kaura Namoda was one of the beneficiaries.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .