50 Cent and Oprah Winfrey | Image: The Independent Rapper 50 Cent made a joke about Oprah Winfrey after she took a fall on stage while speaking at an event in Inglewood, California. On Saturday, during the Los Angeles stop of Oprah Winfrey’s 2020 Vision tour, the media mogul was giving a speech on wellness and the importance of a balanced life when she ironically lost her balance and fell. “Here’s my definition of what wellness means to me. Wellness to me means all things in balance. And balance doesn’t mean all things are equal or at peace at all times — “ Winfrey was saying to the crowd at the Forum arena when she lost her footing and hit the floor. Oprah quickly made a joke out of the situation, stating “Wrong shoes!” into the mic. Oprah took a tumble today during a speaking tour in Los Angeles. Thankfully she’s okay! pic.twitter.com/UUPuufBoXi — Pop Crave (@PopCrave) February 29, 2020  Although 50 Cent had vowed to stop being troublesome after Kobe Bryant’s death, the “In da Club” rapper took to his Instagram page where he shared the video of the fall along with the caption: “what the f**k happen here, michael jackson’s ghost trip her.”   what the fuck happen here, michael jackson’s ghost trip her. #abcforlife #starzgettheapp #lecheminduroi #bransoncognac A post shared by  50 Cent (@50cent) on Feb 29, 2020 at 11:50am PST  Oprah had hosted Michael Jackson’s accusers on her show after the Leaving Neverland documentary had released 10 years after the singer’s death. 50 Cent’s remark is a joke about Michael Jackson getting his revenge. In December 2019, 50 Cent whose birth name is Curtis Jackson criticized Winfrey’s role in the #MeToo movement. He accused Winfrey of “going after black men”. In the now-deleted Instagram post, he wrote: “I don’t understand why Oprah is going after black men. No Harvey Weinstein, No Epstein, just Micheal Jackson and Russell Simmons this sh*t is sad. Gale hit R Kelly with the death-blow documentary. Every time I hear Micheal Jackson, I don’t know whether to dance or think about the little boy’s butts. These documentary’s are publicly convicting their targets, it makes them guilty till proven innocent.” In January 2020, Winfrey decided to step down as executive producer from a documentary that reportedly features rape accusers of former record executive Russell Simons.