Sinach | TIWTTER Gospel singer and songwriter  Osinachi Joseph professionally known as Sinach has made history as the first Nigerian gospel artiste to be awarded a gold plague from YouTube. The popular video streaming platform usually awards the plaque to owners of YouTube channels that has surpassed one million subscribers. Taking to social media to express her gratitude to her fans for always supporting her music career, she shared a photo of herself holding the plaque with the caption: “Look what came in the mail!! Thank you, my friends, for celebrating Goodnews music in a big way !!@youtube @youtubengcreators @youtubemusic @gosgem PRAY WITH ME: I see victories and possibilities only; I’m bold and courageous. I win, irrespective of the challenges and circumstances that I face; they’re bread for me. As I set my gaze on God’s unfailing and eternal word, I walk continually in victory, health, success, prosperity, and righteousness, in Jesus name. Amen. RoR with Pastor Chris.” The Ebonyi state prolific songwriter and worship leader started her music journey in Love World (Christ Embassy) church, as one of the church’s worship leaders. With hits like “Great Are You Lord,” “This Is My Season,” “Rejoice” among others, she has gained popularity and was inducted into Bethlehem Hall of Fame in 2017. She hit a milestone when she gained 0ne million subscribers on Youtube on 7 March 2019, following her record-breaking youtube views for her video of the single  “Way Maker “ which became a hit in countries across Africa and diaspora, with over 100 million views. This made her the first gospel Artist from Nigeria to have that number of views and also the first African gospel Artist to gain one million subscribers. By September 2019, Sinach became the first gospel Artist from Africa to tour India with thousands of worshippers in attendance. The singer’s “Sinach Live in Concert 30 Years Celebration of Worship” (SLIC30 2020) was recently postponed to 18th October 2020. The concert is a celebration of the gospel music artiste cum minister’s 30 years of music ministry.