As NUPENG urges members to embrace safety precautions 
The Trade Union Congress of Nigeria (TUC), Lagos State Council has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to as a matter of urgency expand the restriction order in the state to cover offices and commercial vehicles. They argued that if restrictions are not placed on commercial vehicles in Lagos, it might make a mockery of other efforts of governments. Chairman, TUC, Lagos State Council, Gbenga Ekundayo and Secretary, Abiodun Aladetan, noted that the move it was necessary in view of the fact that most people,  who ride on commercial vehicles, could be exposed to the virus due to the untidy  nature of commercial buses  in Lagos. To further curtail the spread, the labour leaders said the state government should allow workers  and other employers of labour to work from home. They said this was also important because most offices have more than 50 workers, which negates the directive issued by the State Government concerning the number of people allowed to come together in a particular social settings. They urged all workers and Lagosians to take every precaution seriously and keep themselves safe and healthy, adding that every spirited effort is required to keep the state safe and healthy. With the large population in the state, they said the state must take more definitive steps towards curtailing the spread of the virus so it does not escalate, especially against the backdrop of the increased number of index cases recorded in the state. “We also commend all efforts of the government so far aimed at fighting this unseen enemy, particularly on its regular dissemination of information and for being on top of the situation. “However, we think the government should go further by dedicating certain stations and channels for regular information at specific interval in the day on number of cases, number of contact persons they are tracing and hygiene practices needed at this difficult time. “The government needs to do more in the area of enlightenment and awareness to break the dogma among Nigerians who are yet to believe in the potency of the virus. “Government must as a matter of urgency approach the issue with all seriousness it deserves by ensuring that all allocations released to fight this virus are effectively and judiciously used for the purpose If we are to get positive results. “We must equally commend the citizens especially politicians for not politicising the discussions around COVID-19, we encourage more of such responsible synergy to keep all of us safe”, they said. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG),has called on members and staff to embrace safety precautions, and also maintain social distancing in order to minimise the spread of the disease. They also urged employers in the oil and gas industry to provide enough safety gears and create a conducive safe environment. National President of NUPENG, Williams Akporeha and General Secretary, Afolabi Olawale, said: “The Union understands this is a stressful time and people want to know what they can do right now to protect themselves and their families. We, therefore, use this medium to encourage everyone to follow the directives laid down by both State and Federal authorities in the health sectors.” Additionally, they urged employers to ensure that workers in various oil and gas installations across the country maintain high safety standards as well as safe and hygienic environment without compromise in the interest of all to engender more productive and healthy workforce.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .