• Enyimba Players Loss Valuables In Robbery Attack 
The Chairman of League Management Company (LMC), Shehu Dikko has cautioned Nigerian clubs to avoid night travel due to frequent attacks by armed rubbers. Dikko spoke with The Guardian yesterday in the wake of attack on players and officials of Enyimba FC by men of the under world on Thursday night along Enugu-Okigwe-Umuhia expressway in Imo State. The team was returning from a league match against Adamawa United in Yola. Dikko said that the issue of players risking their life to honour league matches was not permitted by the LMC. He, however, sympathise with players and officials of the Peoples Elephants saying that more efforts would be needed to safeguard the life of players while on official league assignments. “I have not been officially briefed on the robbery attack on Enyimba players and officials,” Dikko said. “But one thing Nigeria clubs have to understand is that they should stop risking the life of their players through night journey. The rules are clear on the LMC regulations. I don’t know why it is not followed. Although, I heard the team was close to their base when the robbery attack happened. But this does not remove the fact that teams travelling at night are not acceptable by the LMC. “Also, over the years the LMC has told clubs to sign deals with airline companies to fly their players to league venues. Some clubs in Nigeria like Akwa United have keyed into this initiative,” Dikko stated. Enyimba players and officials were said to have taken cover in the bush after the robbers gained entrance into their bus. A player was injured, while cash and other valuables were carted away by the hoodlums. It was the second time in four years that Enyimba FC had been attacked by robbers. In 2016, they where attacked while traveling to Kaduna to honour the Super Four game. Kano Pillars and IfeayiUbah FC had also been attacked by armed robbers while on their way to NPFL league matches. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .