The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has suspended all school excursions to airports in the country over the coronavirus outbreak. This followed Nigerians’ harsh reactions to a video trending on social media. A viral video yesterday had shown young Nigerian students on an excursion to the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, despite the growing number of coronavirus cases in the country. The video showed dozens of students walking in a long line at the airport yesterday. The person who recorded the video was heard probing why authorities allowed a students’ tour at a time coronavirus was raging. The footage drew Nigerians anger as they lambasted the government for failing to take timely actions amid a global emergency. In a swift reaction, FAAN tweeted its decision: “Thank you for the feedback, we have directed that all school excursions be suspended. Thank You.” Earlier on Wednesday, the federal government shut down the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Orientation Camps across the country. Sports Minister, Sunday Dare, made the announcement via his Twitter account. He tweeted: “Today across the country, the NYSC Orientation camps will be closed and Youth Corpers will be paid and sent to their places of primary assignment. “This again is a precautionary measure on the part of the government to check the spread of COVID-19. The DG NYSC will provide details.” Similarly, the NYSC released a statement that the orientation camps had been suspended indefinitely. In same manner, the New Africa Shrine has suspended all programmes as part of efforts to curb the spread of COVID19. Femi, the son of Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, made the disclosure via Twitter on Wednesday. The tweet read, “The management of the New Africa Shrine has halted its regular programming as the country and the world at large continue to take precautionary measures against the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.” He also advised everyone to stay safe, noting that they would continue to monitor the situation before reverting to regular programming. The shrine is a major tourists’ favourite spot in Lagos. In 2018, French President, Emmanuel Macron, visited the shrine. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo was also at the shrine in the build-up to the election. Meanwhile, Tonye Cole, former Executive Director of Sahara Group, has self-isolated after being on the same flight with Nigeria’s third index case. The 30-year-old female patient was confirmed to have returned on March 13 after a 10-day stay in London. She arrived on BA 75 flight with Cole, who confirmed the development on in a tweet yesterday. Cole noted that he has heeded Lagos State Government’s instruction to self-isolate. “#workfromhome I was on the BA75 flight of the 13th from London on which a lady tested positive for #COVID19Lagos. We’ve been asked by LSMOH to #selfisolate. I’m grateful to @NCDCgov for measures taken at airports to document all passengers coming into NIGERIA so we’re all safer,” he tweeted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .