The Ekiti Police Command, on Friday, arraigned three secondary school teachers in Ado Ekiti Chief Magistrate’s Court over alleged rape of Secondary School students. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. Adesoji Adegboye, ordered that the three defendants be kept in police custody pending issuance of legal advice from Department of Public Prosecution (DPP) and adjourned the matter till March 2. The defendants in the three cases are 44-year-old Adeyanju Olaitan, a teacher at Osi Community High School, Osi-Ekiti; 40-year-old Gbenga Ajibola and 50-year-old Olaofe Ayodele, both teachers of All Soul Grammar School in Ado-Ekiti. Police Prosecutor, Inspector Oriyomi Akinwale, told the court that Olaitan committed the offence sometime in December 2019 in Osi-Ekiti.
Akinwale alleged the defendant, “who was a teacher at Osi Community High School in Osi-Ekiti, engaged one Senior Secondary School Three student to agree and marry him, to the detriment of her academic and psychological wellbeing”. In the two other cases, the police prosecutor, Inspector Johnson Okunade, said they were standing trial for alleged rape.Okunade, who alleged that Ajibola committed the offence in December 2019 in Ado-Ekiti, told the court  that the defendant, a teacher of All Soul Grammar School in Ado-Ekiti, allegedly raped his student, a 17-year-old. The police prosecutor also told the court that Ayodele, a teacher of All Soul Grammar School in Ado-Ekiti, allegedly raped his 15-year-old student sometime in December 2019 in Ado-Ekiti. While Akinwale said the offence allegedly committed by Olaitan contravened Section 6(1) of the Ekiti State Gender-based Violence (Prohibition) Law 2019, Okunade said the offence allegedly committed by Ajibola and Ayodele contravened Section 2(2) of the Ekiti State GBV Law 2019. The police prosecutors asked the court for adjournment to enable them forward the case file to the office of the Director of Public Prosecution for legal advice.The court did not take the pleas of the three defendants. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .