Wabote The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, has said the agency will strive to give the needed support to local operators to make them succeed. Specifically, the Wabote commended and gave its assurance to Falck Prime Atlantic Limited, an oil and gas safety solutions provider offering technical and safety trainings to its numerous clients in Nigeria. Speaking during a visit to the firm’s facility in Ogun State, Wabote said the training offered by the company was necessary, as it would impact positively on the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The executive secretary, who expressed delight over the investment made by the company as well as the level of its maintenance, added: “I think it is very impressive. As you can see, a lot of investment has gone into this. “It is a facility from what I understand commissioned 10 years ago and I am impressed that they are still maintaining the standard when you look at the cleanliness of the facility which is meant to train people on all manner of safety and technical skills. “And I think the company has done a very good job here. They believed in Nigeria. The onus is now on us in NCDMB to give them all the maximum support in order that they will reap the benefit of their tremendous investment in Nigeria and for believing in Nigeria. Managing Director, Falck Prime Atlantic, Ayo Otuyalo said the visit was to showcase what the company has been doing for over 10 years, while also seeking certification from the Board. “For us this visit was to showcase Nigerian content and the investment we have made in this facility in the last ten years,” he said. He stated that the International Oil Companies (IOCs) have been supportive all the way, saying that is why the company is still in business. On the incessant fire outbreaks in Lagos State, he said the company has created firefighting training awareness in the state, adding that Fire Service officials have undergone trainings on how to combat any kind of fire outbreak in the country. “In the next five years, we see ourselves as the biggest fire training school in Africa where we can train fire men to international standards to combat any kind of fire such as gas fires and industrial fires in country. We are also here to showcase that we are way beyond our peers in the industry. Millions of dollars have been invested so far,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .