 The multi-storey office complex in Alausa in Ikeja  The Guardian’s investigations revealed that works have been suspended on the project unveiled by former governor, Babatunde Fashola
Conceived in 2012, the world-class facility is located at the heart of the secretariat in Alausa, Ikeja. The project being constructed by Palmyra Construction Nigeria Limited and managed by Frederick Roberts Limited, provides the construction of three multi-storey Office Complex for a total built area of 43,400 square metres. The iconic project consists of 121 number of offices on 9,500m2 office space, outdoor and indoor parking space of 680 cars, nine conference rooms, daycare centre and crèche, three staff canteens with kitchen, cooperative warehouse, pubic service staff club, indoor sport hall, five-aside outdoor football pitch, lawn tennis court, recreational open terrace, six number of 10 passengers lifts and 24 toilet cubicles. Unveiling the ultra-modern secretariat annex, the then Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, and incidentally the present deputy governor, Dr. Kadri Hamzat said the building would provide inter- ministry networking, improve delivery of service and drastically reduce the huge expenses on rented office accommodation for agencies of the state government. Dr. Hamzat was also empathetic on the completion of the project stressing that the contractor is expected to move to the site because there was provision for the project in the 2012 budget.However, eight years on, the completion date of the edifice is shrouded in uncertainty. A top officer of government however attributed the delay on paucity of funds.  The officer, who crave for anonymity said, the project, which supposed to be completed in three years was hampered by none release of funds by the government. But The Guardian learnt that the state through the ministry of works and infrastructure, which is the supervisory ministry, is firming up the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to ensure that the contractor is tied up to the work schedule of delivery by September 2020. Confirming the development, Assistant Director, Public Affairs in the ministry, Mr. Shina Odunniyi said, the project is being reviewed. “Presently it is at over ninety percent completion. All outstanding works can be completed within seven months as stated by the contractor. “Presently the Ministry is firming up the MOU to ensure that the contractor is tied up to the work schedule of delivery by September 2020”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .