The trend of colored hair has gradually come back into hair trends in recent times. Whether for long hair or short hair, colored hair is another excellent way to spice up your hair. Hair can be dyed in different ways from dyeing it at a salon, using a box at home, or opting for a temporary hair color spray. The problem with these traditional hair dyes is that, at times, they contain toxic and damaging chemicals. These chemicals, such as ammonia or parabens, have a detrimental effect on one’s hair. Plus, they could leave you with unhealthy hair at the end of the day. This is why many natural hair enthusiasts opt to use natural hair dyes that contain no chemicals and are easily obtainable. Depending on the hair color you want, there are different options to choose from, here are 6 natural hair dyes to color your hair at home: For a reddish-orange tint, carrot juice might be the best natural hair dye for you. Depending on your type of hair and the color, this tint could last you a few weeks. Mix carrot juice with a carrier oil, for example, coconut oil or olive oil. Once properly mixed, apply the mixture to the parts of your hair you want colored. Make sure to apply the mixture evenly, then wrap your hair in plastic to let the mixture set for at least an hour. Finally, rinse with apple cider vinegar to set the dye. If the color isn’t as intense as you want, you can repeat these steps the next day. Carrot Juice. Photo Foodtips This plant-based dye has been popularly used to color hair for a long time. While it is often used to create temporary tattoos, henna can also be used to dye your hair red. A natural hair dye, henna comes in powder form. It is a long-lasting vibrant dye option lasting between four to six weeks. Mix half a cup of henna with one-quarter cup of water and stir until the mix is thoroughly combined. Use a plastic wrap to cover the mixture and leave to sit for about 12 hours and add a little water at the end of the 12 hours. Wash your hair without conditioning, when damp, wear a headband and apply coconut oil along your hairline to prevent the henna from staining your skin. Next, apply the paste mixture to small sections of your damp hair until it is totally covered. Finally, wrap your hair in plastic for up to six hours to allow the color set then wash it out. For a deeper red tint with cooler undertones or deep burgundy color, beet juice works great. Mix the beet juice with either coconut oil or olive oil (carrier juice), next apply the mixture to all sections of your hair. Warp your hair in plastic and let the mixture set for about two hours. Finally, wash the excess out and dry. Beetroot juice. Photo Healthline For a brownish tint, your bag of coffee beans is precisely what you need. Using coffee as a dye might take a while to color your hair, and it doesn’t last as long. Brew a cup of dark-roast coffee and mix half of it with 2 tablespoons of coffee grounds and a cup of leave-in conditioner. Next, apply the mixture to your already damp hair and leave the mixture to set for at least two hours. Next, wash out the excess dye and dry your hair. Repeat if your hair still needs a touch-up. coffee. Photo Ledger Insights Saffron is a homemade black hair dye that could work great to touch up your black hair or if you want to cover up your greys. To achieve this, boil saffron and water for about 20 minutes. Allow to cool, when cool apply over your hair and scalp, leaving it to set for up to an hour. Wash your hair with shampoo and use a leave-in conditioner. This homemade dye can be regularly applied once a week. This homemade dye is for lightening hair, but it has a long-term effect, meaning you have to be sure it’s what you want. Mix lemon juice and water into a spray bottle and spray the mixture over your hair in small sections. Finish up by blow-drying your hair. Chemical hair dyes, when used, could leave your hair dry, tangled, and sometimes damage beyond repair. This is why natural hair dyes have become a popular option for dyeing hair, and some of them can be readily found in your home. With these natural hair dyes, you can achieve the same result with no permanent damage to your hair. 