The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide yesterday chided the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnai Nwodo, over comments in one of national dailies, not The Guardian, that South-East Governors’ Forum was frustrating the apex Igbo socio-cultural group’s efforts. In a statement in Abakaliki, the National President of OYC, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzorlo, queried why such provocative media assault on the political leaders of the South-East, alleging that this verbal assault on the South-East governors was a plot by the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo to cover his inabilities. He tendered unreserved apologies to the governors on behalf of those erring elders and Ohanaeze leaders, urging the governors to fortify all states with enough security agents to quell any form of rebellion. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide condemned vehemently the vituperative, rhetoric and open verbal attacks on the South-East Governors Forum by the Spokesman of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, accusing the governors of frustrating the apex Igbo socio-cultural group efforts. “This verbal assault on the South-East governors is a confirmation of the plot to further divide South-East. “OYC queries the rationale behind the attack. “OYC tenders unreserved apologies to the South-East governors on behalf of those erring elders and Ohanaeze leaders, and urge the governors to fortify all states with enough security agents to quell any form of rebellion. “We will no longer tolerate further distraction from any Igbo leader against the South-East governors who are presently working cordially with President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to attract huge projects for the zone. “No form of blackmail from any quarter will derail the South-East governors. We, therefore, place sanctions on the Igbo leaders who sponsored this verbal assault on the governors, as they will no longer speak for Igbo Nation until further notice. OYC asks the governors to forgive them as we pass a vote of confidence on the forum led by Governor Dave Umahi,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .