Youths have been urged and challenged to desist from indulging in crimes but rather channel their energies into productive ventures while exploring opportunities for self-improvement through volunteerism. The call was made during the Basic Education and Literacy program of the Rotaract District 9110 Nigeria, by Rotr. Constance Jaiyeola, the District Rotaract Representative. According to Jaiyeola, volunteerism at an early age can help boost self-esteem in youths as well as help in the development of self-confidence. She added that volunteerism can also create a sense of pride and identity among those who volunteer their time or services to the development of their communities. “Community service is work done by a person or group of people that benefits others. It is done near the area where you live, so your own community reaps the benefits of your work. You do not get paid to perform community service, though sometimes stipend, food and small gifts can come along as encouragement. “The greatest service they say is service to humanity, but no service to humanity is greater than that which liberate the mind from the shackles of ignorance, which underscores why we are hosting the event to mark the Basic Education and Literacy month in Rotary. The hallmark of the event was a keenly contested quiz competition cutting across subjects like Mathematics, English Language, Civil Education and Basic Science amongst representatives from the Junior Secondary classes involving Ilupeju Junior Grammar School, Estate Junior Grammar, Ewu Elepe Junior High School, Ikeja Junior High School, and Oduduwa Junior Secondary School. After about two hours of drilling the contestants on the hot seat, Ilupeju Junior School emerged winner of the competition, followed by Estate Junior School as first runner-up and Ewu Elepe Junior School as second runner-up. The District also made a presentation of textbooks and dictionaries to equip the library of the winning school, whilst also giving prizes and other gift items to all participating schools.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .