 Real Betis’ Brazilian defender Sidnei (up) celebrates after scoring a goal during the Spanish league football match between Real Betis and Real Madrid CF at the Benito Villamarin stadium in Seville on March 8, 2020. (Photo by CRISTINA QUICLER / AFP)  AFP Sport looks back at the main talking points from the weekend: Ronaldo greets invisible fans in ‘surreal’ Serie A 
Cristiano Ronaldo greeted and did high-fives with imaginary fans as he got off the bus before Juventus beat Serie A title rivals Inter Milan 2-0 in a match which would normally have been played out before a capacity crowd in their Allianz Stadium. Joao Felix impresses, but Atletico draw again 
Atletico Madrid warmed up for their Champions League last 16, second leg in Liverpool with a 2-2 draw against Sevilla as Diego Simeone’s side missed the chance to move back into La Liga’s top four. An Alvaro Morata penalty and a Joao Felix goal — his second in three games capping an impressive display from the 126 million-euro ($144m) winger — had Atletico on course for victory only for a Lucas Ocampos penalty to earn Sevilla a draw that keeps them third and leaves Simeone’s men fifth. Atletico is nevertheless unbeaten in six outings and head to Anfield defending a 1-0 first-leg lead. Dortmund emerge as Bayern’s true challengers 
After Borussia Dortmund’s hard-fought 2-1 victory at Borussia Moenchengladbach, captain Mats Hummels said his team had found the right balance of “artists” and “workers” to go far in the Bundesliga and the Champions League. While former league leaders RB Leipzig have fallen back after dropping eight points in six games, Dortmund’s weekend win pushed them into second, four points behind Bayern Munich, helped by the January additions of Erling Braut Haaland and Emre Can. Haaland has already scored 12 goals since arriving from Salzburg but he didn’t find the net on Saturday, instead of setting up Thorgan Hazard for his team’s opener. Can again be playing a key role in midfield, and Lucien Favre’s team head to Paris for a huge Champions League game fresh from five straight wins. PSG denied dress rehearsal 
Paris Saint-Germain headed to Strasbourg eager for a dress rehearsal ahead of Wednesday’s Champions League last 16-second leg against Dortmund. However, the game was postponed due to the coronavirus outbreak in eastern France. The announcement of the postponement came after the PSG delegation had already set off for Strasbourg, meaning they were forced to turn around again after a brief stop for dinner. Thomas Tuchel’s team need to overturn a 2-1 first-leg deficit against Dortmund to qualify for the quarter-finals. Wednesday’s game will be played behind closed doors due to the outbreak. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .