Monarch, landlords’ association claim explosion caused by bomb blast
There may be more trouble for the distressed residents of Soba, Abule-Ado, Lagos State, as the Federal Government has initiated plans to take over the area affected by Sunday’s explosion. This disclosure was made by the acting Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Federal Housing Authority (FHA), Umar Saliu Buntu, who visited the site of the explosion yesterday.
 
According to Buntu, the Federal Government had acquired the large expanse of land from Ojo Barracks to Trade Fair, including the Soba axis, sometimes around 1970. The FHA boss, who commiserated with affected persons, however noted that many of the building in the area had encroached into the government acquired land, making them illegal occupants.
 
He said: “The Amuwo-Odofin residents are claiming ownership while the government has acquired this land for a long time. The land spread to the Ojo Cantonment up to Trade Fair but over time, the family (owners) was still selling to unsuspecting members of the public.  “Suffices to say that at no time has pipeline explosion caused the type of heavy blast that resonated far beyond the immediate communities such as Festac Town and Satelite town to farther communities as Ijanikin, Badagry, Orile Iganmu, Surulere, Ijegun, Ejigbo and Oshodi to mention just a few, leaving behind at its wake shattered windows and roof of houses.
 
The Landlords/Resident Association called on the Federal and State government to set up a high-powered fact-finding committee to unravel the immediate and remote causes of the explosion, which they described as a national disaster. “It is indeed very unfortunate that we lost our BoT chairman, wife, children and over 30 others. We need help from the government to put our lives together.”
 
An affected landlord, Chief Emmanuel Ume, who said he lost two duplexes, a luxury hair saloon, a sewing factory, all worth over N130 million, advised the Federal Government to thread with caution as a take over of the affected areas may do more harm to victims. Narrating how he escaped death, Ume said: “I had gone to church with my family that Sunday morning and that was what saved me. When we got back, we discovered we had lost everything. What I and my family are left with is the clothes we wore to church. We want the government to come to our aid.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .