 Governor Zulum of Borno. Photo: TWITTER/GOVBORNO  Other structures marked for demolition exercise by the newly established Executive Secretary,  Borno Geographic Information Services Agency (BOGISA), Adam Bababe are in Jere council of the state. Speaking at the weekend in one of the Maiduguri demolition sites, he said that residents and commercial shop owners have already violated the State’s Land Use Act, which was passed last year by Borno State House of Assembly. Meanwhile, the 36 Governors, under the auspices of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), resolved that all state Governors will liaise with Federal Government to implement the adaptation of Geospatial Data Policy (GEODP). Bababe said that BOGIS taskforce has embarked on profiling all petrol and gas stations in the metropolis Jere council areas. According to him, the profiling exercise; was to ‘ascertain and digitize documentation statuses of all filling stations in the state. The Governors; last week at a meeting in Abuja resolved that the states will work with the Federal Government to fully implement the Geospatial data project. The project is aimed at providing evidence-based decisions that will help in the implementation of government plans for the effective distribution of capital and human resources. It was also learned that the geospatial maps; would be of great value addition for Government Ministries, Departments, and Departments (MDAs). While speaking on the digitize documentation of residential and commercial buildings and structures, Bababe said that it will curb the waste of scarce financial resources. The Guardian gathered that State’s land agency had earlier issued notice to all affected buildings and temporary structures. He added that all illegal structures in metropolis and Jere council; are built on government-owned land. He said that the Developmental Control and Inspectorate (DCI) divisions of the agency had previously inspected and marked structures for demolishing. He listed areas for demolition to include; Pompomari bye-pass, and Yola Electricity Distribution Company area in Bulumkutu the Yan-Nono and Peace FM areas along Damboa road. Other areas of structures that were marked for demolishing are around Industrial Training Fund (ITF) office near NYSC Camp, Teachers’ Village, and IDP Bakassi camp, New Stadium in Moduganari ward and Mustapha Tatabe Street at Bulumkutu/Abuja residential area. On structures to be demolished, he said: “Various makeshift shops, temporary buildings and plots of land that violated or breached the Land Use Act. He lamented that such makeshifts and temporary structures have blocked roads and drainage facilities in metropolis and Jere. “All the structures and buildings have been sealed off; while others were being demolished,” he said. Continued: “This is just the beginning of the demolition exercise of illegal structures in Maiduguri metropolis,” he said, warning that more, more places and areas would be visited before the end of March this year. He, therefore, urged members of the general public to be law-abiding; as regards lands. According to him, land users for residential and commercial usages should play their roles in building a greater and more prosperous state. He explained that before the demolition exercise, several notices were issued to owners of illegal structures on government-owned properties and layouts. “The general public was enjoined to respect land rules and regulations for contiguous and proper development plans for the metropolis,” he said, explaining that; “Shortly after their inauguration in January this year, BOGISA members announced that all activities pertaining to land were suspended until further notice, including sale of application forms for land. He said the suspension, had become inevitable to allow the new agency stabilize its activities with a view on a smooth take-off. Speaking on outstanding ground rents, he said: “The general public who are holders of Statutory Titles (STs) are hereby notified to settle all outstanding ground rents. “This also includes all other land charges such as assignments, sublease, and change of purpose to enable the agency update its records,” adding that the attention of the general public is also drawn to clause 1(b) of the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O).” He warned that failure to comply with the payments will be considered a breach of the rental clause, which will render the subject certificate of occupancy liable to revocation. It was also gathered at the agency that the notice was preparatory to the re-certification exercise of title documents to many holders. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .