Fasegha Nollywood movie, 2 Weeks In Lagos, directed by multiple award-winning Kathryn Fasegha, is on the verge of becoming the first Nigerian production to get a Canadian cinema distribution deal. The movie is set for release in Nigeria on March 27, 2020, and will also enjoy a limited Cinema release across four cities in Canada in partnership with Landmark Cinemas Canada, the second-largest Cinema chain in Canada. The film will screen in Ottawa, Winnipeg, Calgary and Edmonton Between August 28 and September 3, 2020. The original Lagos love story features top Nollywood actress such as Joke Silva, Toyin Abraham, Beverly Naya, Shaffy Bello, Deyemi Okanlawon, Efe Irele, Tina Mba, Uto Rosman and the likes. The movie also fused a little touch of Ghanaian flavour with one of Ghanaian most prominent actor, Mawuli Gavor. The exceptional love story tells the captivating, turbulent and a thrilling journey into the Love affair of Ejikeme (Mawuli Gavor) and Lola (Beverly Naya). Their lives collide when Ejikeme an investment banker comes home from the United States to invest in Nigerian businesses. It is love at first sight for them and as they embark on a journey of discovering this new love, they have to contend with the political ambitions of Ejikeme’s mother who is planning a marriage between him and the only daughter of Otunba Ayodeji, a political juggernaut, who is considering Ejikeme’s father as his running mate for the Nigerian Presidency. His mother’s actions create a rift between Ejikeme and Lola that puts their families on a deadly collision course. The director Kathryn Fasegha, said, “I’m super excited to direct the first Nigerian movie to be distributed in Canada. First, it was getting a couple of awards with my first project, Treacherous Hearts, the second was getting 2weeks in Lagos screened in one of the most prestigious film festivals in the world, Cannes Festival. Now, it is getting 2 Weeks in Lagos distributed in Canadian cinemas. I’m so happy.” ArtMattan Productions, Inc. a US-based Distribution Company distributes the movie in North America and Europe.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .