 Housewife  Confirming on the incidents yesterday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, said the deceased had allegedly gone to Ada’s matrimonial home to fight her with a knife, claiming that she was dating her husband, but in the process, Ada dispossessed the knife from her and stabbed the late Happiness below her breast and she died. Both bodies, Ikeokwu said, have been deposited in a morgue, while the suspects would be prosecuted. On Chinelo, the police spokesman said: “On the 28/3/2020, operatives of the Divisional Police headquarters, Okigwe, acting on a report arrested one Chinelo Joseph, ‘female’ for the murder of one Okenwa Ekwebelem, ‘male’. “Preliminary investigation revealed that both of them had been in a relationship for some time, and on this day, Chinelo Joseph visited the deceased and after spending time with him, she decided to leave, and the deceased refused. She objected and insisted on leaving, and as soon as she left, the late Okenna ran and blocked her and directed her to go back to his house, which she refused. This led to an altercation and he began to beat her. Then in retaliation, she picked up a piece of iron and hit him on the chest and he fell down and died instantly.” He continued: “Also on the 28/3/2020 at about 11:45 p.m. in Imika Obiti, Ohaji/Egbema LGA, operatives of the Divisional Police headquarters, Ohaji, acting on a report, arrested one Ada Amuzie, ‘female’, aged 26 years, for the murder of one Happiness, ‘female’ (a commercial sex worker). “Preliminary investigation revealed that the said Ada Amuzie accused Happiness of dating her husband, Ejike Lambert. On that faithful day, she went and engaged Ada Amuzie in a fight in her matrimonial home. She took along a knife, and during the fight, the suspect overpowered her and collected the knife and stabbed her below her breast, thus leading to her death. “The body has been deposited in a morgue, while the suspect was arrested. She confessed to the crime and will be charged to court accordingly.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .