Chinedu, a 35-year-old bachelor, ended things with his fiancée over three years ago after he found out that she had cheated on him with several of his colleagues during their relationship. He could not comprehend what Patricia did to him. He had tried his best to be the best partner he could be to her. When he confronted her about her actions, she couldn’t give any reason as to why she did what she did, but maybe for the fun of it. After three years since this happened, Chinedu was unable to sincerely commit to having a serious relationship. He believed he had issues with trusting any lady, as he thought every lady would turn out to be like Patricia. This lack of trust affected his work relationships and his social interaction level as well. Chinedu was introduced to a certified Life Coach, who took him through various steps in Life Coaching and Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP). After few sessions with the Life Coach, Chinedu gradually got past his previous fears and for the first time after he broke the relationship with Patricia, he began to see himself getting married and being emotionally committed to another woman. What issues are you facing that may be stopping you from progressing in any area of your life? Be like Chinedu; get the help you need NOW! What is Life Coaching and why do you need it?
Life coaching is a critical self-directing intervention that unlocks, empowers and enhances an individual’s potential wellbeing, growth, performance, and personal learning. Coaching is the universal language of change and learning. Through coaching, a life coach can help you take stock of where you are in all aspects of your life and compare it to where you like to be. Life coaching provides unique value by helping to mirror your true self, unjudged by the values, thoughts, and views of another person. According to Pete Carrol, “each person holds so much power within themselves that needs to be let out. Sometimes they just need a little push, a little direction, a little support, a little coaching, and the greatest things can happen.” Five Ways Coaching Can Aid Your Personal Growth:
1. Finding Your Calling: The alliance you form with your coach can help you discover what is intrinsically meaningful to you, beyond the expectations and goals of others. Life coaches empower their clients to come up with their own answers, dreams, and plan to achieve them. What do you want out of life? Years from today, what will you regret having passed up? Where do you see yourself in years to come? Once you identify how you derive meaning in your life, you can focus on the direction of your calling. 2. Gaining Clarity: Coaching helps in gaining clarity from life. In our everyday life, our thoughts are mixed-up with to-do lists, and our minds are overwhelmed with lots of things. Under these conditions, trying to reflect on your aspirations is very difficult. Scheduling coaching sessions allow you to set aside the time you need to figuratively paint your big picture on a clean slate. 3. Looking at Your Entire Self: A coach can help you take a step back and look at your entire self, not just the parts of you that immediately demand your attention. There are various areas of life, such as career, finances, health, family, romantic and social life, etc. Personal growth is holistic, never about a single slice of life. When things go well in one part of your life, this positivity spreads to other areas. 4. Leaving Your Comfort Zone: Your coach helps you constantly stretch the boundaries of your comfort zone, so you break a mental sweat each day and go to bed full of energy every night. Taking daily action towards your dreams means spending some time outside the boundaries of your current skills, social group, or familiar environment. A coach can help you acclimatize to unfamiliar territory by asking you to specify goals for which you wish to be held accountable, and then gently pushing you to kick it up a notch and take some additional risks. 5. Fueling Up: Working outside your comfort zone is rewarding, but can also be draining. When you take action to transform your life and embark on new challenges, your coach helps you monitor your level of energy and allocate the time and attention you need to keep you going. Your levels of energy and vitality are not only a function of your sleep and physical health. They also depend on the reserve of emotional energy you have in your tank. A coach can help you to pursue your dreams by identifying your emotional drainers and gainers. In years to come, many more of us will find ourselves facing the complex challenges of finding happiness and fulfillment in the web of the present life. Life coaching can help you examine all domains of your life, and go beyond the daily mix-up of thoughts, in order to pursue your Life goals. Empower yourself for transformation from within and become a Transformation Agent!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .