Defending champions, Enyimba defeated Sunshine Stars 3-0 yesterday to continue their climb up the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) ladder. Mid-table Enyimba, who was recently ousted from the CAF Confederation Cup by Horoya of Guinea, vented their anger on the hapless Sunshine Stars with the prolific Stanley Dimgba among the goal scorers. Martins Usule and Dare Olatunji got the other goals for the Peoples Elephant, who still have two games at hand. In Jos, Plateau United maintained their stranglehold on the top with a hard-fought 2-1 victory over Nasarawa United. The former champions opened scores in the 27th minute through Amos Gyang, but Chinedu Ohanachom brought the teams level in the 32nd minute. However, Ibrahim Mustapha made sure of the points with five minutes left in the game. The win took their point tally to 46 from 24 matches. Enugu Rangers defeated second-placed Rivers United 1-0 at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium with Chinonso Eziekwe the hero six minutes before the break. In Okigwe, Heartland handed Lobi Stars a 2-0 defeat to ensure that the Benue team have only one point from two games. Pascal Eze opened scores for Heartland three minutes before the break, while Chukwuemeka Obioma added the second in the 69th minute. Kano Pillars beat Jigawa Golden Stars 2-0 at the Sani Abacha Stadium courtesy of a brace from Auwalu Ali, while Warri Wolves defeated MFM 2-0 at the Warri City Stadium. Michael Okoyoh opened the scoring for Warri Wolves in the 89th minute, while Charles Atsimene added the second a minute later. Chinedu Ufere’s goal eight minutes from time gave Kwara United a 1-0 victory over Wikki Tourists 1-0 in Ilorin, while Katsina United and Akwa United settled for a 1-1 draw at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium. Ndifreke Effiong gave the visitors the lead in the eighth minute, while Suleiman Ibrahim equalised for the home team six minutes from time. In Umuahia, Abia Warriors chances of beating the drop with a 2-1 defeat of Adamawa United despite going down first in the encounter. John-Paul Chinedu put Adamawa United in front in the 45th minute, but Yakub Mohammed equalized for the home side almost immediately, while Fatai Abdullahi scored the winning goal from the spot deep into stoppage time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .