 Mascot Skillzy poses on March 3, 2020 in the Olympia Park in Munich, southern Germany, 100 days ahead of the upcoming UEFA EURO 2020. (Photo by Christof STACHE / AFP)  COVID-19 has been detected in 76 countries worldwide, killing over 3,000 people with Italy the worst-hit nation in Europe. The Italian capital Rome is one of 12 venues across the continent set to host matches at the European Championship in June and July. A long list of sports events around the world has been cancelled or postponed in recent days to avoid spreading the virus, including games in Italy’s Serie A. The top two divisions of Swiss football have been postponed until the end of March. “You don’t know how many concerns we have when we organise a big competition,” Ceferin said at a press conference in Amsterdam after the Dutch capital hosted the UEFA Congress. “We have security concerns, we have political instability concerns, and one of the concerns is also the virus, and we are dealing with it and we are confident we can deal with it.” This week marks 100 days until the start of the 24-team European Championship, and Ceferin called on organisers to “not just think about dark scenarios, there will be time for that later.” His comments came after FIFA president Gianni Infantino, addressing the Congress, urged authorities “not to panic”. UEFA General Secretary Theodore Theodoridis said European football’s governing body “do not want to overreact” and was dealing with the situation “case by case”. However, Champions League fixtures are a more pressing concern. While Juventus had their Serie A game called off at the weekend, Inter Milan played a Europa League home game behind closed doors last Thursday with northern Italy particularly badly hit by the outbreak. Juventus are due to host Lyon in Turin in the second leg of their Champions League last-16 tie on March 17 and that game could also be played behind closed doors, chiefly because there is little room in a crowded calendar to allow for postponements. Inter are also due to host Spanish side Getafe on March 12 in the Europa League. Theodoridis said: “Inter already have two matches postponed, and they still play in the Italian Cup and the Europa League, so this makes it almost impossible to find dates if we don’t coordinate between the European leagues.” Concerns about the outbreak have impacted on the draw for the next UEFA Nations League tournament in Amsterdam on Tuesday evening. National team coaches are due to attend the ceremony, but Scotland manager Steve Clarke will not be present, the Scottish FA told the BBC. That decision was made in order to avoid an “unnecessary risk” with his team due to play Israel in a key Euro 2020 qualifying play-off later this month. Meanwhile, Spain coach Luis Enrique has not travelled to Amsterdam due to illness, the Spanish Football Federation said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .