China has announced its readiness to assist Nigeria to fight the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) to a standstill with funds and medical supplies. The Chinese Consulate General in Lagos stated yesterday that it would make donations in cash and/or medical equipment to the Nigerian government to help curb the pandemic. The Consul-General, Chu Maoming, stressed that “working together, Nigeria and China will be able to write a new chapter in the history of how we have fearlessly battled to defend humanity and won.” He, however, urged the Federal Government to take effective measures in safeguarding the health, safety and legitimate rights of Chinese nationals on its soil, stressing that the consulate was always willing to assist the Nigerian government and people. The statement read in part: “After two months living with draconian curbs on daily life, residents are allowed to leave Hubei from midnight Tuesday, March 24, if healthy, while Wuhan city, the initial epicentre of the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, will end restrictions from Wednesday, April 8. People who wish to travel in or out of Hubei or Wuhan will be able to, as long as they have a ‘green’ health code issued by authorities. Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Zhou Pingjian (R) handing over Medical Protection Kits  to the Director of Training and Staff Welfare, Ministry of Foreign Affairs,  Mrs Ingikem Ocheni, as part of the embassyís contribution to the fight against COVID-19 pandemic at the Ministry in Abuja on Friday (27/3/20).<br />01857/27/3/2020/Anthony Alabi/ICE/NAN  “After the outbreak, China has made all-out efforts in epidemic prevention and control, effectively fending off the ‘first wave’ of the virus and earning time for the world to enhance preparedness. At present, China has stepped out of the most arduous stage. During the fight, the international community provided support and help, which Chinese people will never forget.” According to him, as the shadow of COVID-19 widens in the world, it is high time all countries came together in response to the crisis that concerns the shared future of humanity. He sympathised with the Lagos State government and people over their fight against the disease. “China did not and will not stand aside when the crisis is causing human suffering, slowing the global economy, and upending people’s lives. China believes that solidarity and cooperation are the most powerful weapons. “It has extended a helping hand to many countries in need, with Nigeria included in the global fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, putting into practice how a world community works towards a shared future, especially in achieving common health for mankind. My country has quickly shared her diagnostic and therapeutic experience with the WHO and other countries. The Chinese government has so far announced assistance to 82 countries, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the African Union AU). Chinese health experts have held video conferences with their counterparts from many countries and international organisations. Chinese local governments, enterprises and civil organisations are also making donations to countries affected. “While giving helping hands to the countries in need, China is also striving to resume production and work. The accelerated development of the “world factory” is boosting world confidence to face up to the risk of economic recession. China has the world’s largest and most comprehensive manufacturing system. In particular, the country’s recovery of production will provide support for the global industrial and supply chains of medical supplies to ease the dire shortage in many countries. “My consulate general and the local Chinese community are mobilised and enthusiastic to make donations either in cash or medical stuff to jointly fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Working together, I believe, Nigeria and China will be able to write a new chapter in the history of how we have fearlessly battled to defend humanity and won. Together with the Chinese community in the greater Lagos area, my consulate general is willing to continue to provide support and assistance within our capacity for the Nigerian government and people. “The Chinese government attaches great importance to protecting the health and safety of Chinese citizens overseas. I am expecting that Lagos and other states will take concrete and effective measures in safeguarding the health, safety and legitimate rights of Chinese nationals on its soil. “I am of full confidence that under the strong leadership of the federal and state governments, Nigeria will surely win the battle and prevail over the pandemic tomorrow. After all, tomorrow is another day!” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .