Christian Faithful across Rivers have been commended for complying with the directive of maintaining social distance during Church service to check the spread of Coronavirus. Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers made the commendation on Sunday in Port Harcourt while addressing journalists after he led the Task Force on Enforcement of the Ban on Public and Religious Gatherings to monitor compliance. Wike said that the churches ensured that each service had about 50 worshippers as agreed during the meeting at Government House, Port Harcourt. The governor, accompanied by the Service Commanders, monitored compliance at the St. Thomas Anglican Church, Mile Two Diobu and St. John’s Anglican Church, Rumueme Deanery. They also visited St. Peter’s Anglican Church, Rumuepirikom Deanery, Holy Trinity Anglican Church, Rumuapara District and Abundant Life Evangel Mission Cathedral. The team also monitored compliance at the St. Andrews Anglican Church, Rumuobiokani, St. Michael’s Anglican Church, Rumuomasi Deanery, the Eternal Sacred Order of Cherubim and Seraphim and Mount of Grace, Elekahia. They visited St. Barnabas Anglican Church, Elekahia Archdeaconry and Saint Paul’s Cathedral, Diobu, Corpus Christi, Living Faith Church, Kaduna Street, D-Line and Churches on Aggrey Road. All the churches visited had running water, soap and hand sanitisers to disinfect worshipers before and after service. Wike said: “The compliance is very much appreciated, except for two churches that did not completely comply. Saint Thomas Anglican Church and Holy Trinity, Rumuapara. “I have told the pastors that I don’t want to shut down the two churches. In all, we are satisfied with the total compliance. “That shows that people appreciate what we are talking about. For us, the safety of our people remains key. We are happy today. “For the two churches that failed to comply, we will review the situation and take action. As you can see, we went to different churches.’’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .