The ruling All Progressives congress (APC) yesterday threw its weight behind the decision by President Muhammadu Buhari to appoint Mr. Bashir Jamoh as the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). APC, in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, argued that the appointment was based on competence and not nepotism as alluded in some quarters. Faulting the notion that the head of NIMASA must come from the southern part of the country, the party cautioned that people should not always have ethnic mindset whenever Buhari takes a decision. The party described Jamoh as an experienced bureaucrat with a grounded knowledge of the maritime sector.APC said: “NIMASA is not the birthright of any state or geopolitical zone. In fact, a rundown of the heads of the maritime regulator shows that from inception when NIMASA was formerly the National Maritime Authority (NMA), heads of the organisation were appointed from different parts of the country. “Dr. Bassey U. Ekong was the Director General in 1988. Alhaji Munir Jafar’ was replaced by Buba Galadima, who was NMA DG from 1996 to 1998. John Egesi succeeded him. Dr. George Mbanefo Eneh was appointed Director-General and was followed after a year by Architect Ferdinand Agu. “Thereafter, Festus Ugwu was appointed and was followed by Mrs. Mfon Usoro. She was succeeded by Dr. Shamsideen Adegboyega Dosunmu, followed by Temisan Omatseye. In December 2010, Zaikede Patrick Akpobolokemi was appointed DG/CEO NIMASA, then Peterside. “Recently, President Buhari approved the appointment of Jamoh as the agency’s Director General.“We can all see the achievements of the President in the transport sector. Jamoh’s appointment further demonstrates government’s commitment to revamp the sector. Besides, Jamoh’s competence is not in doubt. “With 32 years of professional experience in the transportation and maritime sector, he is currently the Executive Director, Administration and Finance at NIMASA. He is also the current President of the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIoTA). “He is an experienced bureaucrat who holds a PhD specialising in logistics and transport management, Master’s degree in management from Korea Maritime and Ocean University and author of the book, Harnessing Nigeria’s Maritime Assets: Past, Present and Future. We should support any Nigerian with such wealth of experience to further reposition NIMASA after the efforts of the outgoing director general.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .