Kano state Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption has commenced fresh investigation of Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, over allegation of illegal sells of landed property. The commission has also issued the emir an invitation to appear before its on 9th of March, 2020, for interrogations. The commission’s investigation came two days after the state house of assembly directed the house committee on public petition to also investigate petition filed against the monarch. Addressing journalists on Thursday, Chairman of the commission Barr. Muhuyi Magaji Rimingado, who insisted the agency is empowered to open fresh investigation on anybody found wanting, disclosed that emir Sanusi has a fresh case to answer. Barr. Muhuyi explained that Emir Sanusi was invited to clear himself over allegation of illegal sales of government property. He said the new allegation was not related to the previous investigation. “This commission is entering a new investigation brought forward by a whistleblower on 29th December 2019 and is not related to an earlier investigation which is still subject matter of civil suit,” Muhuyi said. “Preliminary findings suggest that a company; Country Wide House Ltd. served as a corporate vehicle to allegedly launder the sun of over N2bn being proceed of several hectares of land in Darmanawa phase I and II and Bubbugaji, under the former right of occupancy CON-RESS 2016-503 illegally sold to Messer family home fund limited at the alleged instance of His Highness the emir of Kano. “Investigation further reveals that some of the proceeds of the sales remitted to the emirate council bank account can be traced to the companies of interest to His Highness. “While His Highness is also alleged to have ordered for the payment of one N175million to Messrs. Apple Integrated Resources as facilitating fee for the agreement of provision for side and services at Darmanawa 33.4 Hectares by Messrs”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .