Minister of State for Health, Dr. Adeleke Mamora (left); Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu and President, Bio-Resources of Nigeria (BION), Professor Maurice Iwu during Iwu’s briefing of the ministers on identification of a potential treatment drug for coronavirus in Abuja…recently. PHOTO: NAN As Iwu, other scientists insist on remedy for virus
The Federal Government has disclosed that it will set up a committee to verify scientists’ claims of finding a cure for coronavirus and Lassa fever. Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu stated this at a youth summit organised by the Middle Belt Youths Council (MBYC) in Jos, Plateau State at the weekend. Onu recently announced N36m for any scientist that finds the cure for COVID-19 and Lassa fever, saying the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS) was fully involved in the committee’s work on verification of claims for cure of the diseases. He further urged Nigerians to strive to surmount any future epidemic challenge and not depend on other nations for solutions. The minister, however, charged youths of the Middle-Belt and entire country to take advantage of Science and Technology to improve their livelihoods and fortunes, while urging them to believe and be prepared to contribute their quota to ensure that the nation surmount her challenges. President of the Middle Belt Youth Association, Emmanuel Zopmal, said Nigerian youths should embrace science, technology and innovation to improve their fortunes. Onu revealed that the forthcoming Science and Technology Expo being organised by the ministry, would provide opportunities for unemployed youths to acquire the needed skills to realise their potential. He said the Expo has been scheduled for between March 16 and March 20, 2020, in Abuja and urged the youths to attend the Expo. Meanwhile, Onu also disclosed that the ministry was currently scrutinising submissions of three other scientists who claimed that they have found what could lead to the cure of coronavirus. He said a former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Professor Maurice Iwu, had insisted that he has the cure for coronavirus and that it has been of interest to the United States of America where it is currently being tested. “Iwu has a private laboratory in the country. He isolated a compound, which he believes can lead to the cure of coronavirus. And already, the United States of America, through its MIS, entered into an agreement with him and they are testing that compound now in the U.S. He has brought this to our attention. “Assuming if the Americans find out that it is actually the cure, the world will say America discovered the cure for coronavirus, but the world should know that it started in Nigeria,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .