The Italian patient (centre with the face covered) with health officials on Friday after he was discharged. PHOTO: TWITTER/BABAJIDE SANWO-OLU The unnamed Italian was discharged on Friday night afteR receiving treatment for nearly a month in Lagos, the state governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said Earlier in the week, Nigeria’s health minister Osagie Ehanire said the patient had tested negative and that further tests would be carried out before he could be allowed to go home. “As the COVID-19 Incident Commander for Lagos, I am glad to inform you that the index case; the Italian gentleman is now negative,” Sanwo-Olu said. Sanwo-Olu said the index patient donated one unit of white blood (plasma) before he was discharged on Friday. The blood plasma is rich in antibody proteins that target #COVID19 virus. He said the white blood plasma has been frozen in the state’s bio-bank and will be beneficial for the treatment of new patients in the absence of a defined therapeutic drug for #COVID19. Nigeria has recorded 11 more cases of the coronavirus since the Italian was diagnosed on February 27. One of the cases had contact with the Italian. He has also tested negative for the virus. The patient arrived in Lagos, Nigeria, on Monday from Milan and was reported ill on 26th February. He was transferred to Lagos State Biosecurity Facilities for isolation and testing. “We have a traveller that began his journey in Milan on Monday, 24th February. He transited through Instanbul on Turkish Airlines and arrived in Lagos on Monday night,” Lagos State commissioner for health Prof akin Abayomi said at a press conference on February 28. Abayomi said the Italian spent the night a hotel closed to the airport and travelled to for business engagement at Lafarge Africa’s plant in Ewekoro in Ogun State on Tuesday morning. “He carried out business in Ogun State within the confines of that company on Tuesday and in the early part of Wednesday. “By afternoon, he started to develop symptoms for high fever and body pains.” Abayomi said the patient was isolated and an investigation of the symptoms began at the medical facility owned by the company because of the Italian’s travel origin. He said the patient was isolated overnight on Wednesday and was transferred to Lagos State on Thursday morning. “He immediately he arrived, he was put straight into isolation and the appropriate test was ordered. Within hours, we received the signal.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .