As part of efforts to complement the Lagos State government to combat the spread of Covid 19 in the State, a member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Folajimi Mohammed, would be embarking on a 60-day sterilisation and sensitisation exercise in Ikeja 1 constituency. Mohammed said the move, which would commence tomorrow, is expected to run for 60 consecutive days and would continue if the need arises depending on circumstances. He said the programme will include but not be limited to the public and private facilities in his wards but more importantly inner roads, compounds and communities ensuring that every nook and cranny of the environment is cleaned. According to him, the wards to be covered are GRA, Onigbongbo, Wasinmii, Opebi, Olusosun, Oregun, Alausa and Onilekere, pointing out that the aim of the community service is to reduce and curb the further spread of the Coronavirus. “It is said “charity begins at home” and thus the need for us to start from the grassroots to fight this pandemic together. He advised Lagosians to observe the safety tips provided to prevent the virus such regularly and thoroughly washing of hands clean with soap and water, disinfect with an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
“Maintain at least 1 metre (3 feet) distance between yourself and anyone who is coughing or sneezing. Avoid touching your nose, eyes and mouth. If you feel unwell, have been in contact with a confirmed case, travelled in from one of the highly affected countries, stay at home and isolate yourself or self-quarantine for 14 days, practice social distancing and stay at home,” he said. Responding to questions regarding Ikeja being one of the most hit areas by the virus, he said it is understandable as Ikeja is the closest to the international airport where foreigners from high-risk countries would have come in contact with residents of Lagos. “This is why this sanitisation is important to embark upon and we believe it is better we curb it than to treat it. For the stimulus package, I believe the Lagos State government has a plan. The are looking to engage the local government via the CDAs and the CDCs and what this means is that the people closest to the grassroots will distribute the stimulus package to the constituents. I am sure they are looking for the best means to disburse these relief materials,” he added. The Vice-Chairman, Onigbongbo, LCDA, Oladotun Olakanle, commended the kind gesture and called on the Lagos State and the federal government to increase their level of support to the lawmaker. “I am highly impressed and I think this is commendable. This shows he is tolling the line of what he is supposed to do as a representative of Ikeja constituency 1. It has shown the responsiveness of our member, but I will advise those of us that are going to benefit from this gesture to stay back in the house while also trying to keep social distance and with this in no time, the Coronavirus will be contained,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .