The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has suspended processing of passports and electronic registration of migrants (e-migrant registration), across the country as a result of Coronavirus. Comptroller General of the service, Muhammad Babandede gave the directive yesterday in Abuja, insisting that all passport processing and migrant e-registration should be suspended from March 23, 2020, to April 23, 2020, in line with Federal Government earlier directive on the restriction of international flights. In a communiqué issued by its Public Relations Officer (PRO), Sunday James, it said the outbreak and spread of the virus in the country necessitated the action to curtail the spread and safeguard lives. However, the NIS said it would take advantage of the suspension period to process all pending passports and that members of the public would be informed when they are ready for collection and regretted any inconvenience this may cause. The agency also released its emergency numbers- 07080607900, 08119753844 and 08147199908 to enable members of the public to communicate with it on urgent matters. Meanwhile, the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) has suspended all enrollment activities and other ancillary services across the country effective Tuesday, March 24, 2020, until further notice. It said the decision was in line with Federal Government’s recent directive for all officers on Grade Level 12 and below to away from work as a measure to curtail the Coronavirus pandemic. “The decision was reached after considering the rising number of infected persons in the country as released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and NIMC’s desire to ensure the safety of all Nigerians coming for enrolment, as well as that of its staff members,” a statement from the commission reads. It explained that the closure was meant to curtail Covid-19 pandemic by encouraging strict adherence to social distancing and observance of necessary precautions. The statement said NIMC, like other well-meaning Federal Government agencies, considers the health of Nigerians to be of paramount concern. “Therefore, it is our hope that together, we would tackle the Covid-19 pandemic so that life can return to normalcy, and we can resume enrolment soonest,” it added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .