 Abiodun has urged traditional rulers in the state to give their full support to the South-West Security Network, code-named Amotekun. Photo: TWITTER/DABIODUNMFR  Ogun State Government has urged traditional rulers in the state to give their full support to the South-West Security Network, code-named Amotekun, to curb security challenges in the region. The governor, Dapo Abiodun, who stated this at the inauguration of Awujale and paramount ruler of Ijebuland, Oba (Dr.) Sikiru Kayode Adetona, as the Chairman, Ogun State Council of Obas at the Awujale’s palace in Ijebu-Ode, said that their co-operation, as custodians of culture and tradition, would go a long way in enhancing the success of the security outfit. The governor also implored them to educate their subjects on the importance of the initiative and shun all acts that could jeopardise their future, as well as disturb the peace of the state. Abiodun described the Obas as indispensable partners in the pursuit of the present administration’s mission of “Building our Future Together,” assuring that his administration would ensure that the council’s statutory meetings hold regularly. In his welcome address, Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Afolabi Afuape, said the meeting should focus on issues affecting the traditional institutions and come up with resolutions aimed at promoting peace and orderliness among the traditional rulers, their subjects and the state at large. Speaker of the House of Assembly, Olakunle Oluomo, in his goodwill message, assured that all enabling laws that would make the traditional institution function optimally would be passed by the Assembly. In his acceptance and inaugural speech, Oba Adetona, assured the government of the institution’s support in ensuring a peaceful environment, describing the security outfit as ingenious step that would reduce security challenges facing the region. In another development, the Ogun State government has said that the restoration of the 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) back to the existing 20 local councils will engender the delivery of democratic dividends to the people at the grassroots. Afuape, who disclosed this during the inauguration of the Review and Amendment Committee for the “Guidelines on Administrative Procedure for Local Governments in the state,” said the reversal necessitated the need to review the December 2017 Local Government Administrative Guidelines to achieve meaningful development across the state. Afuape expressed confidence in the ability of the committee members, comprising officials from relevant agencies to the local councils, as well as the Ministry of Justice, to produce useful reports. In his remarks, Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr. Kunle Osota, who is also the chairman of the committee, said review of the guidelines was necessary for local council functionaries to conduct themselves accordingly. Some members of the review committee from the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs include Mrs. Olusola Osasona, Mr. Solomon Adewunmi and Mr. Wemimo Osidipe as Secretary, while Mr. Olalekan Oderinde is from Local Government Service Commission. Others are Mrs. Aanu Fatade, Bureau of Local Government Pensions, Mr. Taofeek Adebayo from Office of the Auditor-General for Local Government and Mrs. Tosin Ogundele, Ministry of Justice. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .