• Youths mount hand-washing points on streets to keep community safe The Nigeria Academy of Medicine (NAM) has urged Nigerians to join hands with the federal and state governments in the fight against the spread of coronavirus in the country. Secretary of the group, Prof. Oluwole Atoyebi, noted that the rising number of infected persons in the country is worrisome. He, however, commended the measures put in place so far by various state and federal authorities in containing the deadly viral disease. He said: “In Nigeria, the number of cases rose from three to 12 within one week and 111 cases have been confirmed positive as at 10:40 p.m. of March 29. Mathematical modelling suggests that the actual figure globally could be 10-20 times more than the number of confirmed cases. “At all levels, Nigerians must demonstrate a high level of leadership by playing their roles and ensure we prevent escalation of the outbreak. We commend government at all levels, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Presidential Task Force charged with the containment of the coronavirus pandemic in the country on steps taken so far to stem the COVID-19 epidemic. “We, however, note, as others have done globally, that this is a war that must be fought by all and on all fronts if we are to come through with minimal damages and scars. COVID-19 has shown itself as not only a health emergency but also an economic emergency. Our key tool remains prevention. This is on account of the sheer size of our population, our resources and the challenges currently being faced by our health system. Now that we have reached the stage of community transmission, a lot needs to be done in the form of health promotion, health protection and prevention in order to reduce the quantum of patients needing hospital care.” Members of Alabata Central Youth Progressive Forum, Egbeda mounting hand-washing points in the community<br />  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .