To commemorate the 2020 International Women’s Day, the United Nations has called on world governments, public and private organisations to ensure there is equal opportunity for all regardless of gender. In her statement for International Women’s Day (8 March), UN Women Executive Director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka highlights 2020 as the year for gender equality and calls on everyone to tackle the persistent barriers against gender equality. The International Women’s Day was first celebrated by the United Nations in 1975. The UN declared that every March 8 should be set aside to celebrate and reflect the economic, cultural, social and political achievements of Women. It is marked globally with works of art, performances, talk shows, debates, rallies, networking events and conferences. Themed “Generation Equality”, the 2020 celebration seeks to draw global attention that gender inequality is not a women’s issue, but an economic issue, Sanna Marin, Finland Prime Minister said in an interview on ‘Getting to 50-50 Gender Parity’ in Davos. This year’s celebration advocates to end gender-based violence, propagate economic justice, equal rights, sexual and reproductive health and rights, equal participation in politics, decision-making in all areas of life, feminist action for justice, innovation for gender equality and feminist leadership.
According to the United Nations, the Generation Equality campaign also aims to bring together women of different ages, gender, ethnicity, race, religion and country, to call for actions that will create a gender-equal world for all Women.
“Generation Equality is keen on advancing gender inequality worldwide, to celebrate the next generations of Women, Girl leaders and gender equality activists along with the rights of women globally,” UN Women headquarters said in a statement. “Equality in political activities and all aspects of life, where women have equal say in decisions affecting their bodies, lives, policies, and the overall environment globally.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .