It was meant to protect players and officials from contracting the rampaging coronavirus, but some of the actors feel the postponement of the National Pro Army Golf Tournament has denied them the opportunity to test their wits against the more established players. The golf tournament was scheduled to hold on March 21 and 22 March with hundreds of professional and amateur players from across the country and Africa in attendance. Caddies were also expected to have their day alongside other support staff and spectators. But the Nigerian Army said in a statement at the weekend, that despite the large number of players that had already arrived for the tournament, which Pro Tour was about to tee off, the event had to be postponed in line with the current situation across the world. Some of the new players, who pleaded anonymity, said they were looking forward to the competition, as it would have provided them the opportunity to know how far they have come in the game. “This is actually my first tournament and I was looking forward to a good event. “You can see many of us have arrived and are ready for the tee off, but we have to accept the decision because it is in our interest,” one of the players from Kaduna said. Israel Oyedokun of Miccom Golf Club, Ada, Osun State, was also biter that the event was postponed at the last minute, saying, “I have prepared so well for this competition and I believe it would been a great outing for me. “This would have been my debut outing in the competition, but I have to accept the decision as it was done to protect us. “I believe that once there is life, one can still achieve his ambition.” Some of the senior pros took the postponement in their strides, saying it was necessary in light of the health hazards posed by the coronavirus outbreak. The statement announcing the postponement of the competition read:  “In the light of the overarching health interest of all players, however, and in compliance with government directives aimed at stemming the spread of the virus, the competition is hereby postponed. “Another date would be communicated when appropriate. All inconveniences are hereby regretted.” The Club Captain, Brig-Gen. A. Ariyibi, circulated the statement. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .