African American working from Home | The New Times Following the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, many companies and organisations have had to go on lockdown. Directives have been given for those who can work from home to do so thanks to modern technology. In case you find yourself in the category of those who have to work from home, below are tips on staying productive. Create a workspace Now that your home is your temporary office, it is advisable that you designate a part of the house as your workspace. Avoid choosing the bed, sofa or TV area. This is to ensure you keep leisure and workspaces well defined. defined. Avoid distractions This is perhaps going to be the toughest for a lot of people. There are several temptations around you at home hence why you need to be self-disciplined by doing away with things that you know can interfere with your productivity. Switch off the TV, minimise social media usage except when you need to read useful websites and stay informed. Create a work schedule Now that you are working remotely, it is important to keep in contact with your colleagues so as to increase focus and a sense of professional coordination. To achieve this, create a work schedule that allows you all to keep in touch and let you know who you can contact for work-related issues.  Use the available technology to connect with others, which is not only vital for the combined productivity of the group, but also for maintaining relationships with those that you may not be beside for weeks or months. Prioritise your tasks For every day you need to work, make a list of the things you need to get done and and in the order in which they need to get done as soon as possible. This will help you move forward and achieve your objectives. Make regular back-ups and be tech-savvy Don’t leave yourself at risk of losing work by leaving items unsaved. Also, as you are likely accessing secure websites, be careful with passwords, keep everything updated, and use antivirus on the computers on which you are working. 