• Woman narrowly escapes death after mad man’s stab The police have arraigned a 30-year-old woman, Kudirat Balogun, before Tinubu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos for allegedly stabbing a tenant living in her father’s property with a broken bottle. Balogun, who resides at Iduwo Eletu Street, Awoyaya area of Ibeju Lekki, was charged with two counts of conspiracy and attempted murder. The prosecution counsel, ASP Ben Ekundayo, told the court that the defendant committed the offence on February 23, at about 7:00a.m. He said the defendant conspired with her brother, who is presently at large, and stabbed a tenant, Mr. Chukma Abuza, with a broken bottle in the stomach during an argument over fetching water from the well. Ekundayo said that the defendant also used an iron rod to inflict life-threatening injuries on the complainant. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of sections 230 and 411 of the Criminal Laws of Lagos State, 2015.
The accused, Balogun, pleaded not guilty to the charge. Magistrate A.M. Olumide-Fusika admitted the defendant to bail in the sum of N200,000 with two sureties in like sum. She ordered that the case file should be duplicated and sent to the state Director of Public Prosecutions for advice.She adjourned the case till March 30, for further hearing. Meanwhile, an unidentified lady is lucky to be alive after being stabbed by a mentally-challenged man along a walkway in Benin City, Edo State. The incident happened on Monday evening in front of Oruokpota hall, Oba Ovoranmen Square, Ring Road, in Benin City.
 
It was gathered that the lady was having a conversation with a friend when the mentally derailed man told them to end the conversation and leave. “But they ignored him, only for him to bring out a knife and stabbed the lady,” an eyewitness said.
 
Passersby, however, stepped in quickly to rescue the victim and disarm the culprit. She was quickly rushed to the hospital. The eyewitness said: “The girl who is now in a very critical condition has been rushed to Benin Central hospital. They collected the knife and beat him to stupor.” Edo police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, could not be reached for comments. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .