• Police vow to enforce rules on pandemic in Imo
• NPA shuts down offices Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State has denied being in self-isolation. He also clarified that he had since tested negative for the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19).His Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser, Oguwike Nwachuku, stated yesterday that the governor was in high spirit working to deliver the shared prosperity government he was driving. The statement read in part: “Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State is not in any self-isolation over Coronavirus. He has long tested negative and has no need to self- isolate himself. He is therefore in high spirit working to ensure that Imolites are protected from the epidemic and enjoy his government of shared prosperity.” However, the state’s police command has said it would enforce all rules regarding the COVID-19, warning the public to observe them, especially as they concern prevention.In a statement yesterday, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, directed all Imo residents to adhere to the rules as espoused by the Inspector General of Police (IGP), including social distancing. The statement also said the command would obey the directives by releasing the bailable alleged offenders.Meanwhile, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has issued a 14-day stay-at-home notice to workers of some of its departments. NPA, in a circular obtained by The Guardian, explained that essential departments like Marine and Operations, Health, Safety and Environment, Security and Finance had also been advised to maintain their respective duty posts. It stated: “Following the current Coronavirus pandemic, the under-listed non-essential divisions/departments are hereby directed to stay away from duty for 14 days effective from [Tuesday, March 24]. “Members of staff are advised to be conscious of their health and safety by adhering to the preventive measures put in place by the medical division of the authority and other relevant government agencies.” “Staffers are enjoined to strictly comply with this directive.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .