Ms. Mary Uduk The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), has restated its resolve to ensure that illegal fund managers are not allowed to operate in Nigeria. The Acting Director-General, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, made this known while speaking in Abuja, weekend.Uduk, represented by the Head, Office of the Chief Economist, Okechukwu Umeano, said the Enforcement Department of the Commission has intensified efforts to close Ponzi schemes and prosecute promoters. She said: “Also, the Commission continues to create awareness through various media to educate investors about these schemes and urge people to avoid putting money into them. It is an ill wind that blows no one any good. “The SEC has introduced a lot of innovative processes to clean up the market and make it easier and safer for investors. Some of these measures and processes include the e-Dividend, and Direct Cash Settlement and regularisation of multiple accounts among others. “Other activities of the SEC such as Risk Based Supervision, encouraging automation, strengthening self-regulatory organisations (SROs), are all geared towards a better market and in turn improved investor confidence”. Uduk also explained that the Commission remains committed to its core mandate of protecting investors, and assures the general public that it shall perform this function in line with extant securities legislation. “We advise prospective investors to cross check properly before patronising any fund manager. Information about registered entities and investment schemes approved by the Commission can be found on the Commissions website or at any of the Commission’s offices,” she stated. Uduk expressed optimism that the market will have a positive year, and thanked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), for its actions in pushing down sovereign yields, and helping funds flow to the equities market thereby reducing the crowding out of corporate from the debt market. “Their (CBN) actions in the area of foreign exchange management and how they respond to rising inflation will play a huge role in determining market performance. However, we have confidence in their ability to do what is best for the economy. “Having said all these, the SEC will continue to do its bit to ensure our market continues to grow. We will keep engaging eligible companies to list, government to ensure that government assets are sold through the market, and removal of the disincentives to investing in the Nigerian capital market,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .