Taylor Swift, Kanye West and Kim Kardashian | EOnline Last Sunday, the infamous 2016 phonecall between rapper Kanye West and singer Taylor swift leaked online in full. The leaked conversation did not make West or his wife Kim Kardashian look good as they had earlier accused Swift of approving lyrics for West’s controversial song “Famous.” In the song “Famous”, West refers to Swift as a bitch, claimed he made her famous and also has a feeling they may still have sex. When the song was released, Swift said she never gave her consent to such misogynistic lyrics but at the time Kim released part of the phone conversation between West and Swift. Many slammed Swift for being a liar and snake considering West did reach out to her but now that the full version of the conversation has been leaked, fans are having a rethink. Following the release of the full conversation, Swift sounds like she feels vindicated while Kim just sounds over it. On Monday Swift took to her Instagram stories to react to all the renewed interest in the beef between her and the Wests. She wrote: “Instead of answering those who are asking how I feel about video footage that was leaked, proving that I was telling the truth the whole time about *that call* (you know, the one that was illegally recorded, that somebody edited and manipulated in order to frame me and put me, my family, and fans through hell for 4 years),” the singer wrote. “Swipe up to see what really matters.” Those who swiped up were led to a donation page for the organisation Feeding America. In another Instagram post, the “Lover” singer revealed that she has been donating to Feeding America and the World Health Organization during the coronavirus pandemic. “If you have the ability to, please join me in donating during this crisis,” the star wrote. Taylor Swift, Kanye West and Kim Kardashian Hours later, Kim responded on Twitter accusing Swift of reigniting an old exchange at a tie when milions are suffering . Kim goes on to write: “I didn’t feel the need to comment a few days ago, and I’m actually really embarrassed and mortified to be doing it right now, but because she continues to speak on it, I feel I’m left without a choice but to respond because she is actually lying.” She added: “To be clear, the only issue I ever had around the situation was that Taylor lied through her publicist who stated that “Kanye never called to ask for permission…”,” Kardashian West tweeted. “They clearly spoke so I let you all see that. Nobody ever denied the word “b***h” was used without her permission.” “At the time when they spoke the song had not been fully written yet, but as everyone can see in the video, she manipulated the truth of their actual conversation in her statement when her team said she ‘declined and cautioned him about releasing a song with such a strong misogynistic message,” she also tweeted. “The lie was never about the word b***h, It was always whether there was a call or not and the tone of the conversation.” Reacting to Kim’s tweets, Swift’s publicist Paine tweeted: “I’m Taylor’s publicist and this is my UNEDITED original statement. Btw, when you take parts out, that’s editing. P.S. who did you guys piss off to leak that video? ” In another series of tweets Kim denied editing the clip she posted, defended her husband’s “right to document his musical journey and process, just like [Swift] recently did through her documentary [Miss Americana]” and stated “the call between the two of them would have remained private or would have gone in the trash had she not lied & forced me to defend him.” She wrote: “I never edited the footage (another lie) – I only posted a few clips on Snapchat to make my point and the full video that recently leaked doesn’t change the narrative. To add, Kanye as an artist has every right to document his musical journey and process, just like she recently did through her documentary. Kanye has documented the making of all of his albums for his personal archive, however has never released any of it for public consumption & the call between the two of them would have remained private or would have gone in the trash had she not lied & forced me to defend him. This will be the last time I speak on this because honestly, nobody cares. Sorry to bore you all with this. I know you are all dealing with more serious and important matters.” Swift and West’s enmity can be traced to when West infamously interrupted Swift during an acceptance speech at the 2009 Video Music Awards (VMAs).