I Go Dye | Daily Post Nigeria Ace Nigerian comedian Francis Agoda popularly known as I Go Dye is arguably one of Nigeria’s most talented comedians to have managed to stay relevant in the highly competitive entertainment industry. Having entertained millions of people and touring the world for over two decades, the widely travelled and celebrated comedian,is set to celebrate his 25 years on stage as a comedian with his signature show tagged “Igodye Standing: Kinging with Kings,” the Platinum edition. I Go Dye will host fans and comedy lovers at an event scheduled for April 12th 2020, at Best Western HomeVille Hotel, G.R.A, Benin City as part of series of events to mark the silver jubilee. Speaking on the event that coincides with Easter Sunday, I Go Dye said: “It’s a refreshing experience, celebrating 25 years on stage and bringing ‘I Go Dye standing; “Kinging” with the Kings,” Platinum edition. It’s been a journey, that was made possible by God Almighty and with your inspiring cheers and love. ‘Igodye Standing’ , will commence with a series of events across Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Warri. We had great times together all these years, your presence at shows where I performed and those that I personally organised have taken me to where I am today. Honestly speaking, without you, my fans, families, friends and clients there will be no me. I am really indebted. We have to put smile on the faces of those with beautiful dreams to keep their hopes alive. I am doing the little I can, through the shoulders you used to lift me up, while hoping to expand my capacity in the following years by God’s grace. Please, once again, join Seaside Entertainment company and Primeview Label to spread the love and share our joy this Easter Sunday at “Igodye standing: Kinging with the Kings” Over the years, I Go Dye has attempted to address some of the societal ills through his works. Having always been a high flyer even as a child, he is the first high school student in Africa to build a flying helicopter, a hovercraft ship, radio transmitter and a solar table fan which earned him a scholarship to study structural engineering at the prestigious New York University. In these last 25 years, I Go Dye has always been at the forefront of youth development and empowerment, a charge he has also extended to top Nigerian professionals. Widely Known for his sophistication and style, in his first show held in 2009 in Benin, I Go Dye singlehandedly featured the entire Mo Hits crew including D’Banj, Wande Coal, D Prince, Ikechuku, MI and others while he also sold out the 02 Arena in London to mark his 20 years on stage in 2015. I Go Dye’s experience as a victim of the Warri crisis between the Ijaws and the Itsekiris, where he was shot and lost some of his friends prompted him to shoot a documentary, “Peace in Sight” in 2008 for the United Nations to promote peace and rural development. That same year, he toured the world with America Point Gate to promote peace and fight against drug abuse and racism.