 Oshiomhole  This follows as the Neighbourhood Economic Development Foundation (NEDF) in conjunction with PNB Dania Memorial Foundation Incorporated urged Christians and Muslins not to relent in praying and fasting against the deadly disease. Oshiomhole, who briefed reporters at the party’s national secretariat, explained that the measure was aimed at safeguarding the staff members of the secretariat. He said the secretariat would be shut for two weeks, adding that its staff members should be rest assured that their March salaries would be credited into their bank accounts accordingly. “This is just a preventive measures the party have taken by closing down the secretariats for about two weeks so we can manage the situation at hand, but if it persists, then we will have to extend the holidays because we need to remain alive to be able to serve the country and the party,” he stated. NEDF’s National Coordinator, Taju Dolapo, stressed the need for Nigerians to adhere to the counsel of medical experts to contain the virus, adding that the group was partnering with stakeholders from the public and private sectors to mobilise Nigerians at home and abroad to cleanup the country of filth and dirt for the good of all. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has directed a partial closure its national secretariat in Abuja. A statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday disclosed that only skeletal services would take place at the secretariat. The party has equally directed that secretariats of its state chapters to be closed. “In line with the measures being taken to safeguard our nation from the spread of Covid-19, the National Working Committee (NWC) of PDP has directed a partial shutdown and skeletal activities at the national secretariat from Wednesday, March 25, 2020. “The NWC also directs all PDP secretariats and offices across the country to comply with this directive accordingly as it is already adopting pre-emptive health safety measures that will safeguard lives in all our offices nationwide,” the statement reads.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .