Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively | ComicBooks Hollywood couple Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively in a bid to help the nation’s state of health, concerning the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak are giving out $1million for the provision of food in the USA. The “Green Lantern” actor and his “Gossip Girl” star wife took to their Instagram pages to announce that the donation would be split between the “Feeding America” and Foodbanks Canada” organisations. They also urged others who are privileged to help donate to people that cannot provide food and basic food essentials for themselves. Both expressed their deep-felt love to citizens who have been affected and others that are financially crippled at the state of national emergency. Lively wrote: “Covid-19 has brutally impacted older adults and low-income families. Ryan and I are donating $1million to be split between @feedamerica and @foodbankcanada. If you can give, these orgs need our help. Though we must be distancing ourselves to protect those who don’t have the opportunity to self-quarantine, we can stay connected. Remember the lonely and isolated. Facetime, Skype, make a video remember the love that can travel through all this. Communities are stepping up for the elderly, making lunches for children.we can all do something for one another, even if that’s simply staying home. Sending so much love …..” Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds | Yahoo Reynolds on another hand wrote: “Covis-19 has brutally impacted older adults and low-income families. Blake & I are donating $1million to be spilt between FEEDING AMERICA AND FOOD BANKS CANADA. If you can give, these orgs need our help. Take care of your bodies and hearts leave room for joy. Call someone who is isolated and might need connection.” Both organisations put in place to help provide food and other essentials for the less privileged unable to feed now that the state of America has been put under lockdown. The organisations have been in existence before the Covid-19 outbreak. “Feeding America” was created in 1979 and “Foodbanks Canada” in 1987. Both organisations are two of America’s largest domestic hunger-relief system, helping in the elevation of hunger among the poor in the society were put in place to help.