 Lanre Olusuola  Ronke and as a result, she began to withdraw from the rest of her family. Ronke’s mother never understood what was wrong with her daughter, and would always refer to her as a ‘problem child’. Ronke performed badly in school due to her inability to concentrate. Her results were very poor, and because of this, she got transferred to different schools, multiple times. She eventually graduated and travelled to Canada for her University degree. After her University education, Ronke was able to secure a well-paying job. When asked about marriage, Ronke always stated that she did not have the intention of getting married at the moment and still wanted to take her time. Ronke at 35 years was finding it difficult to stay in a committed relationship. She was constantly attracting the same type of men – who abused her physically/emotionally or serial cheats. This affected her self-confidence and self-worth and she often felt like she was not good enough. Desperate to find a solution, Ronke went on the Internet to get help and stumbled upon the page of a Certified Life coach and trained Psychotherapist. After going through Coach’s reviews, she booked an appointment with him. During the course of their sessions, Ronke went through a series of processes to deal with her childhood trauma, past experiences and began the journey to healing, forgiveness and letting go. The Coach at some point applied Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) techniques because Ronke had some limiting beliefs and barriers, which were affecting her choices of men, her self-esteem, self-worth and her life in general. Different coaching tools were also used in order to move Ronke from her current state to where she desired to be. Today, Ronke is better than she used to be. She now has a healthy relationship with her family and a good sense of self-worth. She is open to commitment again and will find someone in due time. Ronke is where she is today with the help of a Life Coach and Psychotherapist, who made use of different tools, with one of them being Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP). What is Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP)?
Neuro-Linguistic Programming is the systematic study of the thoughts (Neuro), Language (Linguistic) and the scripts running our lives (Programming). NLP deals with understanding and developing the mind. It deals entirely with understanding the language of the mind, how it is designed to function and how it is moulded by our personal experiences. It is the study of our subjective reality. Our mind, once properly understood, influences everything, ranging from relationships, communication with friends, clients and personal outcomes in life. Below are some areas of life, an individual can apply NLP. 1. FOR PERSONAL EFFECTIVENESS AND SELF MASTERY: To consistently succeed in life, work and business in Nigeria today and all over the world, you must have “game excellence”. Your success is dependent on your personal effectiveness and self-mastery. Consistent success and competitive leverage require you staying motivated, exceeding norms and overcoming all barriers. NLP is a phenomenal mind/body connection tool that helps you gain mastery over your thoughts, self-worth/confidence, emotions, beliefs, work, business and life. 2. IN RELATIONSHIPS (MARRIAGES): The recent statistics holds a grim future for marriages and love relationships. With 1 in 2 marriages globally ending up in divorce and 7 out of 10 marriages in Nigeria ending up in one form of separation or the other, it becomes paramount to get relationship management skills needed to ensure you get the right partner and keep them by being the right partner. NLP helps you understand and master the matrix of human and relationship behavior. 3. FOR BUSINESS LEADERS AND ENTREPRENEURS: For business success, every business leader must master how to make money and manage people. Business leaders with their teams have to set and achieve powerful goals. With NLP, business leaders and entrepreneurs can master the art and science of setting and achieving powerful goals and effectively managing their workforce. 4. LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS: The success of a Leader is determined by the success of their followers. Effective communication and motivation are critical leadership success factors.
NLP helps leaders:
a. Understand the neuropsychology of leadership b. Understand human behavior and learn how to unlock their followers’ potentials c. Master the art of inspiring loyal followership d. Master the art of leading and motivating high-functioning/performing teams e. Master the art of Vision Creation, Strategy Formulation and Execution f. Achieve more with less Neuro-Linguistic Programming (NLP) can help you examine all domains of your life, and go beyond the daily mix-up of thoughts, in order to pursue your life goals. The application of Neuro-Linguistic Programming into your daily life can do this for you and many more. Why don’t you equip yourself with this amazing technique by registering for our Neuro-Linguistic Programming Certification, taking place from the 14th – 20th April 2020 at the Olusola Lanre Coaching Academy (OLCA). For more information, call us on 08077077000 or send an email to info@olcang.com
Shalom! The Catalyst – Lanre Olusola To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .