President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, yesterday, joined the Foreign Ministers of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Bahrain at the White House to mark the historic normalisation agreements between the Jewish nation and the two Arab countries. Trump hailed the occasion, claiming the signing of the Abraham Accords would “change the course of history” and mark “the dawn of a new Middle East.” He said: “Together these agreements will serve as the foundation for a comprehensive peace across the entire region, something which nobody thought was possible, certainly not in this day and age. “These agreements prove that the nations of the region are breaking free from failed approaches of the past. Today’s signing sets history on a new course and there will be other countries very soon that will follow these great leaders.” Netanyahu described the day as a “pivot of history, a new dawn of peace.” According to CNN.com, the last time such a ceremony took place in Washington was in 1994, when President Bill Clinton looked on as Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and Jordanian King Hussein signed a declaration that paved the way for a peace deal months later. “For Trump, the timing was crucial. Less than two months before an election in which he trails in the polls, normalisation agreements between Israel, the UAE and Bahrain are major foreign policy achievements, even if the region was gradually moving towards these relationships regardless of who occupied the White House. “For years, Israel has had covert relations with many of the Sunni Gulf states, driven in recent years by a mutual de facto alliance against Iran,” the new media said. “Even so, the relations pre-date the Iran nuclear deal by more than a decade in some cases, as Gulf states looked to take advantage of Israel’s high tech scene and Israel looked to secure its place in a turbulent Middle East,” it noted. The media outfit added: “Chief among these behind-the-scenes relations was the United Arab Emirates, with numerous public examples of the growing ties between the two states becoming more common.” In late 2015, Israel opened a diplomatic-level mission to the International Renewable Energy Agency in Abu Dhabi. In 2018, then Culture Minister Miri Regev made a state visit to the Grand Mosque on the heels of an Israeli gold medal at a judo tournament in the Emirates. Israel was also invited to Expo 2020 Dubai, a world expo that has since been delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Like the UAE, Bahrain also had covert ties with Israel stretching back years. Moreover, it has a small but sustained Jewish community, with one of its members serving as the country’s ambassador to the United States from 2008 to 2013. The small Gulf kingdom also hosted the unveiling of the economic portion of the White House’s plan for Middle East peace, signalling a willingness to engage with the U.S. and subsequently Israel on the issue, even at a time when no progress on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict appears possible. Crucially, the UAE and Bahrain are also close allies of the U.S., with each country hosting a significant American military presence. The U.S. Air Force has deployed F-35 fighter jets to an air base in Abu Dhabi, while the Navy’s Fifth Fleet and Central Command are based in Bahrain. That military presence has drawn the leaders of the UAE and Bahrain closer to the U.S., and because of the anti-Iran alliance, closer to Israel.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .