Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc has acquired another set of ground support equipment valued at about half a billion naira. The investment is part of the N3.6 billion equipment proposed in 2019 for injection into the company to aid facility upgrades and enhanced service delivery. The new delivery is the first of two sets expected before the end of the first quarter of 2020. The company has also completed the renovation of the cargo complex, which houses the airlines, cargo agents, banks, and other clients. Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of NAHCO, Tokunbo Fagbemi, said the plan was to make NAHCO customer-centric, and with this renovation, as well as the ongoing equipment purchase, “we are providing our clients a conducive environment to operate.” “We are also coming up with fresh innovations to offer our numerous clients better deals, and retain a minimum of 65 per cent market share in aviation ground handling business. “We will continue to strive for excellence at all times. This is just part of the equipment being expected, some more will be delivered in the coming days. The era of inadequate equipment is sure to be over soon,” Fagbemi said. The GMD, however, attributed the company’s current low turnout to the COVID-19 pandemic, stating that it adversely impacted its operations. She said despite the pandemic, NAHCO’s five-year transformation plan was still on course, apart from the significant slowdown as a result of the closure of the airports, expressing hope that the company is optimistic to scale through the hurdles. NAHCO Plc is a Nigerian diversified enterprise with interests in aviation cargo, aircraft handling, passenger facilitation, crew transportation, and aviation training. The company currently serves several airlines across the major functional airports within Nigeria and handles the largest chunk of domestic, foreign, and cargo airlines. In 2005, NAHCO was privatised and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 2006. The Company is now owned by over 80, 000 shareholders, as well as local and institutional investors. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .