Abuja, the nation’s capital, will be agog with cine festivity from December 1 to 7, as thousands of domestic and foreign film enthusiasts converge on the city to savour the best features of Zuma Film Festival (ZUFF) 2020. In a statement issued in Jos, Plateau State and signed by Brian Etuk, Nigerian Film Corporation’s (NFC) Head of Public Affairs, this edition will have a combination of physical and virtual participation.  However, all events of the Zuma Film Festival (ZUFF) 2020 will comply with COVID-19 Safety Protocols. The Theme for ZUFF 2020 is: Content Connectivity – 2: Everyview, Everywhere. Etuk said, “the festival will, among others, focus on sustaining the conversation on harnessing the potential and opportunities inherent in digital content production, marketing and distribution.” He added that ZUFF 2020 would be used to contribute to the growth of Nigeria’s film industry and the national economy. The statement quotes Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, NFC’s Managing Director and Chairman, Organising Committee as saying that no effort will be spared to ensure that ZUFF 2020 sustains the narratives that Nigeria is indeed the hub of film production activities in Africa despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Maduekwe explained that the vast growth and the great potential within the film sector of Nigeria makes it imperative to emplace platforms where those who develop and produce contents for film have access to opportunities of funding, marketing, distribution and exhibition. According to the NFC boss, ZUFF 2020, the 11th in the series, will again provide a platform for the recognition of Nigerian filmmakers who have or are adding the needed value to the development of the art and business of filmmaking. The Awards categories are:  Best Cinematography, Best Script, Best Animation, Best Actress, Best Actor, Best Documentary, Best Foreign Film, Best Student Film, Best Picture, Best Indigenous Film. Entries open on September  1 and closes on November 15, 2020. All entries, addressed to the Festival Director, Zuma Film Festival can be submitted through the free film way platform: www.filmfreeway.com/zumafilmfestival; or to Zuma Film Festival Secretariat, Nigerian Film Corporation Headquarters, Jos, Plateau State, as well as NFC Zonal Offices in Lagos, Asaba, Umuahia, Yola, Kano and Abuja. Entry forms can also be downloaded from the festival and NFC websites; www.zumafilmfest.gov.ng; www.nigerianfilms.gov.ng. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .