‘There’s more APC’ Ex-gov eyes 2023 presidency 
Ex-Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha has extended his congratulations to Godwin Obaseki on his victory in Saturday’s election. Obaseki, who returns as Edo State governor, won the election with 307,955 votes, while his main rival Osagie Ize-Iyamu of the ALL Progressives Congress polled 223,619 votes to place second. Okorocha, who spoke with journalists in Abuja ahead his 58 birthday celebration, described the APC’s loss as masses’ revolution against injustice. The APC chief, who represents Imo West in the Senate, congratulated Edo residents for “standing up against injustice”. He said: “When injustice comes into a matter, the centre can no longer hold, and that is the problem of the APC. I forewarned about what is happening today in our party. It means we don’t have APC in the South South. “In the South East, literally we can say we don’t have APC, we just managed through the Ben Johnson way to get one state and that does not make our image good. “The same party under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari, a man we consider a clean man, an honest man, a patriotic man and these are happening, that means it is unfortunate. “The truth is what I have been talking about and it has come to play. Edo people are not docile, they know what they want and how they want it.” Okorocha claimed that many of the founding fathers of the APC had been relegated to the background. He said: “The APC was formed by four major political parties that had governors. One was the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) led by President Muhamamadu Buhari, the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) led by Ahmed Tinubu, the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) led by Ogbonnaya Onu, and the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) led by me brought in our structure. The PDP group came in and joined us. I gave the name APC. I designed that logo and that was the beginning of the party and we had understanding.” Okorocha decried the declining fortunes of the APC and expressed concern about the chances of the party in the 2023 elections. “There is no more APC, what we have is the respect for President Buhari, that is what is keeping us together. But we still believe that something can be done,” the ex-governor added. “I don’t think there is anything like APC because people are beginning to get fed up. Again, the PDP is not even better; the party has its own challenges. “In 2023, I think people are going to vote a cording to their conscience. People are beginning to realise that a political platform is not the best to give you what you need. People are beginning to be more politically aware that individuals are more important than the name political party.” The lawmaker called for repositioning of the party ahead of the 2023 polls. On the 2023 presidential poll, Okorocha said he would stand for election if convinced he could make the desired impact. He said: “Contesting the presidency is not just because I want to be President. If I’m going to be a President that will not succeed, I don’t want to be. But if my presidency will unite this country, then I want to be President. “If my presidency will address the issue of poverty and insecurity, then I want to be President. If my presidency will address the economy of this nation that we will begin to talk like other developed nations, then I want for be President. And if my presidency will guarantee education for the poorest of the poor, then I want to be President. Other than these, hold your president and presidency, I am fine.” Okorocha said religion or geographical location should not be a yardstick for becoming Nigeria’s President. He said: “If I am running for President, I am running for the president because of what I do for the people and not necessarily where I come from, and this is the mistake we have been making in this country in choosing leadership at every level. These sentiments have all been there.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .