Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has charged Nigerians to pray to God, serve and do their best for the growth of their respective faith, state, and the nation at large. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke, yesterday, at the official opening ceremony of the second session of the 34th Synod of the Diocese of Lagos, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion) at Our Saviour’s Church, Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos, said COVID-19 had shown in reality that people need to pray. The governor, who disclosed that Monday, September 7, 2020, would be the first day in over six months that he is entering into “House of the Lord,’ thanked God for sparing his life and millions of Lagosians, especially members of the Diocese of Lagos, to witness this year’s Synod even as Lagos State continues to see a reduction in the numbers of confirmed cases of COVID-19. Stressing the need for Christians to pray and serve in reference to the Synod theme “Pray, Serve and Grow” with Romans 12:11 as reference scripture, Sanwo-Olu said the theme of the synod was apt because for all to build a ‘Greater Lagos,’ there is need for people to pray to God, serve and do their best for growth of the state. In his address, Bishop Humphrey Olumakaiye, who described Sanwo-Olu as indefatigable and result-oriented, said the governor had approved the construction of the road leading to the Centenary City of the Diocese and mobilised contractors to move to site. He also commended him for showing leadership in managing the COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos State as well as delivering on some of his campaign promises. Also, Primate and Metropolitan of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Most Rev. Henry Ndukuba, who was represented by the Bishop of the Diocese of Lagos West, Rt. Revd Olusola Odedeji, wished the Diocese of Lagos a fruitful synod and also commended Governor Sanwo-Olu’s administration. The Dean Emeritus and immediate past bishop of Diocese of Lagos, Most Rev Ephraim Ademowo commended Bishop Olumakaiye for his great works in the diocese, noting that he is happy that the incumbent bishop has taken the Diocese of Lagos to a greater height. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .