 Worshippers at the 2020 ‘From Sorrow To Joy’ programme of the Lord’s Chosen in Lagos.  It doesn’t matter the size or height of the enemy oppressing you, what matters is that God has heard the cry of His people and has decided to deliver them. Whatever the situation in the country may be, whatever fear is prevailing, you will be delivered. And “If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed” (John 8:36) Beloved, God’s decision is final on every matter. No matter the situation, the word of God concerning you cannot be challenged. There is no kingdom, power, spirit or evil personality in existence that can oppose God’s decision in your favour. Isaiah 43:13 says, “Yea, before the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it?” When the Lord is committed to doing a thing, there is none that can stand in opposition; and today I am assuring you that God has decided your freedom even now and the devil cannot reverse it because His decision is final and irrevocable. God banished the devil and disobedient angels from heaven with little or no effort even though they resisted and fought back but could not prevail because God has the final say on every matter. Our God, Who is the creator of heaven and earth and everything therein, has the final decision on every matter on earth, in heaven and beneath the earth. He is the owner and preserver of the world and all things therein; and He has a perfect right to govern and dispose of all, as it seems good in His sight. Gen. 1:1, 26 says, “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.” The scripture buttresses the fact that God created man, the earth, heaven and everything in them including all spirits both good and bad one. Satan deceived man whom God created for His pleasure at the very beginning and caused man to sin and consequently lost the relationship established between him and God including his beautiful home. Thus, he was dislodged from that plan, driven out, cursed and he started suffering. God Who is full of compassion decided to end the suffering of man by sending His only begotten Son to die and liberate man from sin so that man would be delivered completely. So, through Jesus Christ our deliverer, man became free from Satan and by extension, suffering and afflictions. This was made possible because He has the final say on any matter. God has freed you from the bondage of affliction for the very reason of allowing Jesus Christ to die for our sin. So, Jesus that is in your life has guarantees in your life complete freedom from sorrow, affliction, poverty or crisis. It is God’s decision for you to be free and you will certainly be free in Jesus name. Those that have God as their King and deliverer need not fear who or what will be against them. He that makes God his habitation and refuge is sure his protection is secured. True believers are precious in God’s sight, and God delighted in them above any people. Though they may go through fire and water, yet, while they have God with them, they need fear no evil or harm. And because it is God that sustains them, they are rest assured that whatever He may determine for them must not be to their ruin but rather will advance their good course for He has assured He will never leave nor forsake them. Isaiah 43: 10 says, “Ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.” We are all witnesses to the fact that the Almighty God is the true God. There is no being before Him nor shall any continue after Him. The Lord is God from everlasting to everlasting. He is the beginning and the end. He is the first, and the last, and beside Him there is no God. He originated the whole plan of salvation, blessing and curses, and He alone will determine their closure. He determined the formation of the world, and He alone will wind up its affairs. In the beginning, the continuance, and the end, He alone will be recognised as the same Being presiding over and controlling all. Beloved, since all determination of man is under His discretion, it is prudent, therefore, that we must submit in totality to Him and allow Him to determine what is good for us. For we cannot do anything without Him, neither can we own anything without His permission. Jn 15: 4- 5 says, “Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 5 I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing.” As all spiritual fruitfulness had been ascribed to the mutual inhabitation, and active interpenetration of the power of God, it is essential that we keep this vital connection to continue in fruitfulness. We must abide in Him by keeping His words and living a holy life by having all our conversation right. We are dead, fruitless branches, without Christ in our life. The whole history of the world demonstrates that fruitfulness is only found in union with Christ. When we submit to Him, we will receive every help and influence from Him that our souls can require, in order to be preserved and saved. For as the branch, however, good in itself, cannot bear fruit from itself, through its own juice, which it has already derived from the tree, and can be no longer supported than it continues in union with the parent stock, neither can we, unless we abide in Him. As the branch partakes of the nature of the tree, is nourished by its juice, and lives by its life, so we must be made partakers of His Divine nature, be wise in His wisdom, powerful in His might, and pure through His holiness, for God can do without man, but man cannot do without God. Jer. 29: 11 says, “For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.” God has a good thought for you this year. He has determined to save, deliver and bless you and nothing shall hinder Him. This deliverance will not depend upon your merits, but upon His own mercy, and kind thoughts and purposes. As we march into the New Year, I want to assure you that God Who has allowed you to see the end of this Year has determined to bless you and make your enemy submit to you, and that shall be done in Jesus name. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .