The commissioner for education, Lagos State Mrs Folasade Adefisayo has announced the plans for both public and private schools resumption in the State months the schools were shut down due to COVID-19 pandemic. “The Ministry is adopting a phased approach to opening public schools,” Adefisayo said. “This phased approach to opening will enable public schools meet COVID-19 social distance rules and safety protocols aside helping it watch the behaviour of the pandemic as schools gradually open. She said the present Junior Secondary 3 and Senior Secondary 2 students in public schools in the state are to resume classes from Monday, 21st of September, 2020. “The resumption will permit the present JS 3 students who are already in an exit class to revise and get adequately prepared for their forthcoming Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE) organized by the Lagos State Examination Board and scheduled between Tuesday, 6th and Monday, 12th of October, 2020,” she said. “The resumption will also afford the present SS 2 students an opportunity to prepare effectively for their transition to SS 3. The scheduled dates and venues for Entrance Examination into Lagos State Model Colleges will soon be announced by the State Examination Board. “We assure parents that announcements for opening the other classes will occur as soon as we are certain of their safety. In the meantime, the unopened classes in public schools will continue their lessons on our various distance learning platforms while the next phase for physical resumption will be announced in due course.” The commissioner said students in private primary and secondary schools are permitted to resume from Monday, 21st September. “The State Government strongly recommends and encourages school owners to put safety first and open in phases similar to the plans for public schools. “Phased opening also include strategies for staggered resumption in the mornings, classes on alternate days during the week and teaching through various distance learning methods. Schools must also comply with safety protocols and hygiene guidelines as instructed by the State Government through the Office of Education Quality Assurance (OEQA). The Office of Education Quality Assurance will continue to monitor and evaluate Schools’ preparedness.” She maintained that pre-primary classes and schools in both public and private schools will remain closed until further announcements are made. “The state government wishes to remind schools that the pandemic is still with us and we must in all situations, make the safety of our children, teachers and parents and our community as a whole our first priority.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .