 Runners gunning for honours at the 2019 Access Bank Lagos Marathon. All is now set for the maiden Kaduna Marathon.  The Kaduna marathon, also tagged ‘Kaduna Runs,’ was established through the collaborative efforts of the Kaduna State Government and its partners to further showcase and promote the diverse sporting talents in the state. The event slated for November will attract leading international marathon runners and is aimed at strengthening the state’s position as a foremost sporting venue that has produced many world-class athletes in Nigeria. It is also positioned as a unity race to showcase the dynamism and relentlessness of the Kaduna people. The Chairman of the Marathon steering committee, Mr. Jimi Lawal, during a stakeholders’ meeting at the weekend, explained why the Kaduna State government picked Nilayo Sports Management Limited as the consultant. He said: “We engaged NSML as consultants for the Kaduna Marathon because they have organised marathons and road races of international repute. We are confident that engaging NSML will ensure that the marathon will be a huge success.” The stakeholders meeting held at the Kaduna State Government House was attended by major stakeholders involved in the planning and execution of the Kaduna Marathon. They include Ministries, Educational Institutions, and security agencies across the state. Chief Executive Officer of NSML, Bukola Olopade, said: “We are delighted to be part of the Kaduna Marathon. We give kudos to the steering committee for conceptualising this illustrious event, and we are bringing our full force and expertise to execute the event to ensure it is a resounding success. “NSML is known for excellence, and we are very confident that the race will join the league of recognised and respected marathon races across the world.” Among other sporting events across the country, the NSML organises the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, which is the biggest Marathon in Africa and also Silver labelled by World Athletics, Great Abeokuta 10km Race, Africa’s foremost Ultrarace, the Valuejet IAU African Championship Remo 2019, and a 50km Ultra race held in Ogun state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .