If there is one common household pest we all hate, it is cockroaches as they are one of the hardest to get rid of. Their reproductive capabilities make it challenging to rid yourself of them completely as it is as if you cut one head off, two more will take its place. Cockroaches pose serious health risks to families, as they carry a large number of diseases like dysentery, typhoid, poliomyelitis, and gastroenteritis to name a few. Additionally, cockroach faeces may cause eczema and an allergic reaction in some people. They contaminate whatever substance they come into contact with and that is why for the wellbeing of your family, you check out these top tips below on controlling these pests. Clean, clean and clean again
Most household pests feed off dirt and that is why you have to ensure your house is spic-and-span because cockroaches are attracted to food residue, particularly grease. A 15-minute clean-up at the end of each night is enough to eliminate most residues. Seal up crack and holes 
Sealing cracks, skirting boards and any other entry points cockroaches use to gain access will assist in getting rid of cockroaches especially if you live in an apartment and have neighbours who don’t maintain the same standards of cleanliness as you do. You can use a tube of caulk and a caulking gun to do the job. Additionally, this will help prevent cockroaches from entering your home. Fix any water leaks
The reason you find cockroaches scurrying under the sink is that they are attracted to moisture and water. Some cockroaches can survive for months without food, but only days without water so close off their water sources by repairing even the tiniest of leaks. Don’t let water stand in your sink or buckets, store food in sealed containers or in sealed plastic bags and clean food debris from under fridges or cookers. Make your own natural cockroach bait
Mix three parts boric acid with one part powdered sugar. The sugar lures the roaches, while the boric acid kills them. Although the boric acid isn’t toxic to people or pets, it can be irritating so keep it away from counters and places where little fingers and noses can reach. Sprinkle it under and behind the refrigerator, stove and dishwasher, under the sink, and into cracks along the edges of cabinets and other cracks they may hide. Bring in the experts
If you have a big infestation of roaches on your hand, then you may want to bring in a professional exterminator.