The Anglican Communion, at the weekend, expressed concern over the death sentence recently passed on popular Kano musician, Yahaya Sharif, for alleged blasphemy. In a communiqué issued after the third session of the fourth synod at the Cathedral Church of St. Matthew, Patani, Delta State, the church called for an immediate review of the judgment. The communiqué signed on behalf of the church by the Bishop, Diocese of Western Izon, Edafe Emamezi, specifically condemned the “harsh judgment”, saying the Kano judiciary erred in not carrying out its responsibilities fairly. According to the communiqué, every citizen deserves justice regardless of religious affiliation. It urged the Federal Government to look into the case and reverse the judgment as soon as possible. The church also condemned the rising rate of ethnic and religious killings across the nation, calling on the government to stop the migration of herders and their cows. “Synod expresses concern over the incessant violence and bloodletting with religious, ethnic and political underpinnings across the country,” it stated, charging the Federal Government to end the rampant killings using the armed forces. It also recommended ranches for cattle and irrigation. This, according to the church, will curb the southern migration of the herders and end the perennial farmer-herder conflicts. While pointing out that the nation had a lot of work to do to restore peace and unity, the Synod, however, commended the present administration’s fight against corruption. It pointed out the importance of punishing culprits accordingly to serve as a deterrent to potential criminals. In relation to the synod’s theme, the church called for increased evangelism to improve sowing and reaping. “In a bid to improve sowing and reaping, Synod advocates that the pulpit should be taken from the church to our communities and every street corner, thereby involving our parishioners in sowing and reaping for eternity,” it said. In attendance were diocesan officials, the Council of Knights of Western Izon Diocese, clergymen and guests from within and outside the diocese.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .