Obiano Convener of Great Anambra Forum (GAFORUM), Fab Ozoigbo, yesterday told Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano not to tamper with the power rotation arrangement in the state. According to the Peoples Democratic chief, it is the turn of Anambra South to produce the next governor. The three senatorial zones in the state have been locked in battle to produce Obiano’s successor in 2021. Of the three zones, only Anambra South has yet to produce the chief executive of the state for more than one term. With Anambra Central, which produced Peter Obi as governor, and Anambra North, which fielded Obiano, allegedly against the zoning of the 2021 governorship to Anambra South, Ozoigbo said the governor should respect the power rotation arrangement by ensuring that his successor comes for Anambra South. He called on every party for the governorship election to field a candidate from Anambra South. The GAFORUM chief said: “We are not talking of zoning so that others may be disqualified. We are talking of power shift so that campaign expenses will be less, and there will be emergence of more people with cognate experience, not those who think they can use their money to sway our people to vote for them and then, we get into bondage and non-performance because you cannot give what you don’t have.” Meanwhile, South Africa-based financial institution, DafriBank Plc, and Umeh Foundation have given palliatives worth millions of naira to Ezinifite Community in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State to cushion the effects of COVID-19. The foundation and the bank doled out N100 million to train underprivileged children in school in the community for 10 years. Some of the palliatives were rice, tomatoes, groundnut oil and face masks. The event, which took place at John Scatter’s compound in Amaekwulu Umuezenwa village at the weekend, was spiced up by Evangelist Patience Ozokwor, Mama -G of Nollywood. A senior member of staff of the bank, Onos Oma, while addressing the beneficiaries, said DafriBank and Umeh Foundation were in the community to alleviate the sufferings of the people that had been affected by the pandemic. The President-General of the community, Nze Ikem Okwonna, said it was the first time the community was witnessing such a thing.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .