REUTERS/George Esiri / GE/GB Continued from yesterday Changes in the allocation of foreign currencies have made it difficult for spurious subsidised foreign currencies to minimise corrupt manipulation of foreign exchange and encourage domestic manufacturers and agricultural producers who had been placed at a relative disadvantage through subsidisation of imports. The Buhari project, while in the right direction must at the end of the day yield tangible results in the form of key indicators, namely, the level of corruption, national security, the economic growth rate, industrial and agricultural production, power generation, new and rehabilitated infrastructure and ultimately, the perception of the public that the country is moving in the right direction. It should be noted that any assessment must take into account a number of factors, namely, the enormity of challenges Buhari faced, the strong opposition by the political elite, the precipitous fall in the world price of oil and now Covid-19. In an analysis I made prior to the last election, I concluded that while he was on the right path it was still work in progress. Nigerian voters endorsed that position and gave him a pass when they re-elected him for a second term. Buhari’s Nigeria has had some reasonably valid criticism. The pace of his reform has been slow because unlike Buhari the military leader, he has used the legal levers which has been criticised by some supporter who would prefer more draconian, possibly extra judicial methods. He has been criticised for ethnic bias, namely, of packing his government with northerners and not taking a hard line with Fulani herders in conflicts with southern farmers – Buhari is a Fulani from the north. His supporters have noted that while he as most leaders, has made use of trusted contacts that often come from the same background, his team is quite diverse from all over the country. The conflict between the herders and farmers is quite complex and really should be resolved by local and state governments. Rwanda, rising from the ashes of the devastating genocide a quarter of a century ago, a country with limited natural is another shining star, with impressive gains in its economy, infrastructure and a myriad of social indicators as documented in my report which posed the question of whether the country should be a model for project Africa. The country has been on the march since that devastation with an effective and efficient governance structure that has been validated with record economic growth driven by record private domestic and foreign capital investment and aid flows, a government that sets the agenda and effectively and efficiently manages the development programme to the benefit of its people, uplifting millions out of poverty, implementing a comprehensive social and healthcare programme and diversifying its economy. It also has a very impressive record on gender equality with women playing a significant role in the democratic process – the country has the highest proportion of women in its legislative assembly in the world. It should be noted that as with the other two countries there are caveats. While there have been impressive positive gains in the democratic system, notably, attempts to diffuse ethnic tensions there are still significant issues. The Rwanda project is very much the work of its leader, Paul Kagame, who has used his vision, vigour and management skills to achieve this spectacular result, obviously aided by similarly competent officials. While there have been elections, doubts have been raised about their fairness and Kagame and his political party have been in power for the last quarter of a century. Issues have been raised about the (freedom of the) media and there have been reports of suppression of dissent and opposition parties in Rwanda and abroad. At the end of the day Kagame cannot live for ever and what happens after him. It should also be noted that despite the fact that the Kagame regime has not embarked on divisive rhetoric, actions or revenge that the ethnic issue has been completely obliterated. Indeed the perpetrators of that abominable (genocide) act and their supporters were not guided by rational principles. These issues must be addressed and if allowed to fester risk damaging the entire fabric of the remarkable achievements as has happened in other countries, notably The Ivory Coast where a superb economy crumbled in a civil war because of underlying tensions. A recurring theme, in all three countries and the continent is the issue of ethnic rivalry and strife which has hobbled the democratic process, the effectiveness and efficiency of the state and fuelled corruption. All the stars have made efforts at curbing this problem because its solution is a prerequisite to making significant progress in these three themes. States should strive to develop the infrastructure in all regions to ensure a level playing field and then investors would be motivated by factors such as the natural resource, size of market and other relevant factors. Obviously all efforts must be made to diversify governance so that all ethnic groups and regions are fully represented without necessarily having a bloated government. In the case of Nigeria Anthony Akinola, a reputable political analyst has vigorously promoted the rotational presidency concept, namely, that the country’s leadership should be rotated between regions. The focus of his proposal is that the northern and southern regions alternate the presidency. While this may apply in that country because of the distinct differences between those regions in terms of ethnicity and religion, the policy has not been put on the country’s statutes (although it has been applied by the country’s major parties on an informal basis) and it could be quite difficult to implement in many other African countries for a host of reasons. However for all of them efforts must be made to ensure that governments are as inclusive as possible. This note has tried to focus on the shining stars in a continent bedevilled with leaders and political structures that have and continue to betray their citizens, preventing countries from realising their potentials and making use of the ample resources, including its people. The focus is on the democratic process, giving voters their right to decide whether a leader/party has delivered; the integrity of leader, in particularly his/her role in the perpetuation or fight against corruption; the vision and management capability of leaders to set and manage socio-economic goals and programmes. The ideal will be a situation where voters have the full right to decide who rules, where corruption is the exception rather than the norm and the government actually functions and delivers its mandates effectively and efficiently. I have noted the caveats with each of the countries selected which suggests the significant challenges facing those countries despite the impressive records that caused them to be included in the list. Other African countries have fared quite well in terms of critical indicators, attaining high levels of economic growth rates, low levels of corruption, advances in the democratic process in terms of free elections, media and judiciary, impressive developments of their infrastructure and setting and managing the development agenda. The reason for choosing this list is the degree at which my list of countries scored on the criteria. No other country in Africa has had the level of changes in governments for the duration that Ghana has. Buhari has ruled Nigeria twice and not once has he been personally accused of a corrupt practice by even his most vociferous opponents and he has embarked on the herculean task of rooting out corruption in a country with a worldwide reputation for corruption which has regularly topped the list for corruption. Rwanda has risen from the ashes of the worst genocide in Africa this century (probably third after Hitler and the Kamer Rouge) to attain star performance on a host of key indicators, a government that actually works for its people. How can Africa benefit from this note? I suggest that academics and policy makers assign these countries as case studies to evaluate how they attained the status as well as the challenges noted. This is in many ways a much better approach than traditional text books or the work of expensive consultants that are foisted on Africa by foreign aid donors. I must stress that the caveats or shortfalls/challenges are equally if not more important than the achievements because they drive the narrative and enormity of the task ahead. It has been noted that democracy does not feed the masses and indeed some of the most spectacular achievements in terms of delivering what really matters, economic development and food, income and health security have been achieved by countries where the democratic ideal has not taking root. Similarly, some of the least corrupt and most efficient and effective governments have not necessarily adopted the full democratic model. This in no way precludes the ideal noted and elements of all three themes are definitely a plus. Concluded. Rogers is principal consultant at Media and Event Management Oxford (MEMO) United Kingdom.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .