 Football. Photo: THESTATESMAN  The Federal Government had on Thursday disclosed the decision for the country’s leagues to resume without spectators due to the COVID-19 pandemic effect and the strategic and investment partnership between LMC and the Redstrike Media Nigeria, where the latter acquires the rights from the LMC/NPFL and the clubs for NPFL marketing. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Sadi described the return of the country’s leagues and the live telecast of the NPFL fixtures as a double impact for the growth of the country’s football, adding that he understood the feelings of the players having been left inactive for several months. “I am happy that the league will soon return after the Federal Government announced its decision for the resumption of football. This is good and it is a welcome development because as a former footballer, I know what may likely be going through the minds of the footballers. When players train individually, it is not like when you train in a group because there is no way one can train well. “The announcement by the LMC to the whole world that they now have a new sponsor that will show live games of the NPFL weekly, is a double celebration to the followers of the NPFL. With this announcement, I believe the sky will be the limit for the Nigerian football, adding that the resumption of the leagues would be allowed the clubs representing the country at the CAF championships apple time to prepare well. “This is the best time for our leagues to commence so that the clubs representing us at the CAF championships can begin preparations in earnest. A camp outside the country will be ideal for them so that they can play with top clubs in the continent before the start of the CAF tournament. “What they need now in terms of preparation is not playing friendly matches with the Nigerian clubs because continental football is not like engaging NPFL teams in the league. It’s just like playing for the national team against clubs in the league, adding that this is the time for sponsors to rally round them. “I want to solicit supports for Plateau United, Enyimba, Rivers United, and Kano Pillars so that they can get to the semifinal, final, and even win the respective cups, which have eluded us in recent time. This is the time for the state governments to really come around and offer massive support,” he said. The former Ranchers Bees player, who spoke on the death of former international, Ajibade Babalade’s on Friday, said, “It’s a pity he is gone. We cannot judge when certain things happen because this is the way life is arranged. Ajibade was a great player and a great guy at the same time. He was someone you can rely on. May his soul rest in peace,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .