Hope is a scarce commodity in these times. And hope is what Iretiola Doyle, Kate Henshaw, Lala Akindoju, and The Guardian Life magazine brought when they kicked off The Hope Challenge. The Hope Challenge was honed toward creating awareness for young creatives and actors. The Guardian Life sat down to talk with Mayowa Damilare the winner of the challenge. My name is Mayowa Damilare, I am 21 years old, and I’m a Christian. I am from Ile Ife, Osun State. I am the fourth and second to the last child of the family. My mom is a trader, and my dad is into furniture making and design. I am an undergraduate student at the University of Lagos (UNILAG) department of Creative Arts. I have been a lover of the Arts from a very young age. I started dancing and acting since the age of five, then I joined a children’s theatre group at 12. My love for art is still at 100%, and I hope to use my art as a tool for the creation of a new outlook in the entertainment industry.   please like and comment.  @lalaakindoju  @k8henshaw  @iretidoyle @guardianlifeng A post shared by  Mayowa Damilare (@mayowa_damilare) on Aug 19, 2020 at 7:13pm PDT  I have a tremendous interest in films like horror, fantasy, action, thriller, and adventure. So I created my concept around fantasy, like a sorcerer who is chanting, hence the reason for revealing just my face in the video, and the laughter at the end too. Connections, opportunities, and the prize. I took part in the challenge because of the highly respectable angle and people it involved, Iretiola Doyle, Lala Akindoju, Kate Henshaw, and The Guardian Life. I thought it wise to participate, hoping I’ll in a way, gain connections and more opportunities afterwards. The last part is about the prize after winning the challenge. Mayowa Demilare I am friendly, and I value respect. Yes, it is. Dancing, writing, directing, video editing, and let’s say, I’m a filmmaker in the making. Acting is my favourite, but I have a great interest in film production and directing. I believe some problems young creators like myself face are recognition, funds, and a place in the industry. Recognition is one of the major things that works in the world of art. Connection influences recognition, then an outstanding work will keep the space created by recognition in the industry.
Funds are also like it. Many of us do not have the needed equipment or money to rent the equipment to produce the magical ideas in our head. It is just like the common saying, “a person with a head had no cap”.