A former governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Olusegun Agbalajobi, yesterday, charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to remain neutral in the Edo State governorship poll on Saturday. Insisting that this would ensure free, fair and credible election, Agbalajobi urged INEC and security agencies to be impartial, neutral and non-partisan while discharging their duties. He gave the charge at his Oye-Ekiti home while addressing journalists as part of activities to mark his 60th birthday, urging the electorate to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner before, during and after the poll. Agbalajobi said peace was necessary for the smooth conduct of the exercise, stressing that the political ambition of any politician was not worth the blood of any Nigerian and cautioned youths against being used as thugs by desperate candidates who want to clinch power at all cost. “Our youths should resist the temptation of being used to perpetrate violence on elections day. No politician’s aspiration is worth the blood of anybody, because the lives of our people and the country’s peace are more important than our personal interests,” he said. He also expressed the need for soldiers to stay away from the election, adding that their presence may create fear and force eligible voters to refrain from participating in the electoral process. He urged eligible voters to come out en masse without fear of intimidation and harassment to vote for APC’s candidate, Osagie Ize Iyamu, who he said, has a better developmental plan to turn around the socio-economic fortunes of the state. Agbalajobi, who said he was surprised at the massive turnout at APC campaign rallies, admonished the electorate not to sell their votes, as that would amount to selling their future. “Don’t allow anybody to use N2000 or N5000 to buy your conscience for the next four years. If the people sell their conscience on elections day, their rights as citizens cease to exist. “If they sell their votes, they can no longer request good roads or quality education their children deserve and other things they are entitled to as citizens. That is why it is important to vote wisely on Saturday,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .