 A bridge cut off in Kebbi<br />  No fewer than 32 lives have been lost, hundreds of houses destroyed and thousands of residents displaced by the devastating flood that sacked communities in Kebbi State.
 
Though according to the NiMET forecast, 11 local councils of out 21 are inclined to flooding, currently, there are already 15 highly risk local councils, which have been badly affected by the flood, while the remaining six are also feeling the impact.
 
At least, over 10 Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps have sprang up in some of the affected councils to accommodate displaced residents. The flooding has wreaked havoc to houses, infrastructure like roads, bridges, schools, hospitals and even the Bagudo Prison, in Bagudo council area. The sacking of the prison, The Guardian learnt, necessitated the relocation of the inmates to Birnin-Kebbi correction facility on Friday.  MEANWHILE, the hope of parents of two toddlers was shattered yesterday, after  their two kids were swept away by flood in Ketu area of Lagos State during Saturday’s torrential downpour at Oyebanjo Solarin Street, Ketu.
 
The deadly blow was announced by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) in a situation report on Sunday after an extensive operation to find the missing children.
 
According to Nosa Okunbor, Head, Public Affairs, LASEMA, the agency’s response team, led by the Director of Operations, Pastor Olatunde Akinsanya, an engineer, extended the search to about 500 meters radius along the canal way, but the two children were still not found, more than 12 hours after they were swept away by the flood.
 
Though the operation was still ongoing as of press time, LASEMA said apart from the extended radius and deep inquiries around the neighborhood about the missing children, the agency was conducting public enlightenment on flooding and its dangerous repercussions to the residents and their properties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .