Cuppy Florence Ifeoluwa Otedola, professionally known as Cuppy, recently unveiled her debut album, Original Copy. The album, which has received positive reviews since unveiling, is said to be a contender for the Album of the Year award. Many years in the making, Original Copy features an array of high-profile collaborations and sees Cuppy tap into a sound she describes as ‘neo-Afrobeats’, with the 12-track releasing tackling themes ranging from independence to love lost and African pride. Creating this body of work was a journey for Cuppy. She says: “I went back to my roots, Epe and mixed with the locals for inspiration. I visited my family’s farm and recorded lots of ambient and animal sound samples. If you listen very carefully you can hear these in each track.” Cuppy goes on to say: “I’m so proud that the album is now out. For me, it’s not about numbers and statistics and charts, it’s about the fact that I was able to focus and actually achieve my dream of having an album.” She adds, “so, honestly, I’m already happy regardless of what happens. Nonetheless, I encourage everyone to join this journey and I hope they enjoy listening as much as I enjoyed making this album.” Original Copy brings together some of Africa’s artists for a celebration of the continent’s ever-growing influence on the global music scene. The album features singles such as, Jollof On The Jet, the global sensation featuring Rema and RayVanny. Also in the album is recently released Karma, which features award-winning dancehall star, Stonebwoy. Further star-studded tracks include, Grammy winner Wyclef Jean, who is making an appearance on Wale track. Bob Marley’s son, Julian, links up with Sir Shina Peters on the cross-continental anthem, 54. The project also features UK breakout stars Ms Banks and Darkoo. Other tracks in the album include, Epe ft Efya, Feel Good ft. Fireboy, Cold Heart Killer ft Darkoo, Original Copy (Interlude), Litty Lit ft Teni, Guilty Pleasure ft Nonso Amadi, P.O.Y. ft Ycee & Ms Banks and Labalaba ft Seyi Shay. DJ, producer, philanthropist and Apple Music Radio host, Cuppy has quickly risen through the ranks to become a supreme lead role as a global pan-African tastemaker. With her loveable personality and undeniable hard work ethic she’s embarked on a number of projects, including her Cuppy Takes Africa Tour.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .