• Issues That Made Poll Peaceful Within 24 hours to the September 19, 2020 gubernatorial election in Edo State, prospective voters had already been sharply divided between the two major political parties, the governing Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). The peaceful conduct of election had instigated discussions on the salutary effect of Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) decision to delist some fringe political parties and decongest the electoral space.
 
Stakeholders, particularly voters and politicians, expressed the belief that, beginning from Edo State, the country was entering into the glorious democratic stage of bi-partisan competition that would crown voters as the real custodians of power and harbingers of good governance.
 
Although voter turnout hovered as always below 30 per cent of total number of registered voters and collection of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), apprehensions over the likelihood of violence and lack of credibility of the electoral process remained high.  Bi-partisan Competition
CRITICS that observed the Edo governorship poll held that the exercise was made easier by the simplicity of the range of choices before the voters, which were majorly between PDP and APC. As such, prospective voters had already settled it on their minds, which party and candidate to vote for even before accessing the polling centres.
 
However, although some observers contended that only the two major parties mustered enough resources, including agents and alleged inducement of voters, it was obvious that only PDP’s Obaseki and APC’s Ize-Iyamu were very competitive in the election. That could explain why one of the pro-democracy groups committed to election monitoring and good governance, Yiaga Africa Watching The Votes (WTV), singled out the two parties in its survey, stressing that the odds favoured PDP to triumph at the poll. While emphasizing its commitment to promoting credible elections by providing independent information on electoral processes, Yiaga Africa disclosed that through WTV, which is driven by data, it verifies accuracy of election results.
 
In its report shortly after the September 19 poll in Benin City, the group said it employed the Parallel Vote Tally (PVT) methodology, alongside 500 stationary observers deployed in pairs to 250 polling units and assisted by 25 mobile observers to find out that PDP would collect between 52.5 per cent and 59.7 percent of the votes cast to win.
 
If the preponderance of two political parties made it easy for monitoring and evaluation, it could also be argued that voters would find it convenient to determine between two candidates which one meets with their preferences.
   
The only task for INEC under such circumstances would be how to address its logistic challenges, particularly on the issue of malfunctioning card readers, which affected accreditation and voting in the election.  While rehashing the history of liberal democracy, Okechukwu noted that “voters are the owners of political parties and therefore you can’t divorce them from their form, character, strength and weakness.”  He maintained that despite the peaceful outcome, both camps were armed to the teeth, deep vault filled with huge cash war chest and propaganda arsenal. “Many factors were at play in the peaceful nature of the Edo State gubernatorial election, most important was the level playfield provided by President Muhammadu Buhari followed by the interventions of retired General Abdulsalami Abubakar and Bishop Matthew Kuka-led National Peace Committee, the Oba of Benin, Ewuare II and other non-state actors,” he stated.
 
It is possible that the outcome of the Edo governorship election would strengthen the hands of National Assembly members to equip INEC with enabling legislations, particularly in the amendment of the Electoral Act 2010, to further sanitise the election environment through greater scrutiny of political parties. Anti-Godfather-Influence
THE emergence of three giants who were not on the ballot, contributed to the early taking of sides by the Edo State electorate. The combined support of APC leaders, particularly Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and Captain Ehosa Okunbor for the party’s candidate, Ize-Iyamu, turned the incumbent into an underdog. Aligned to the perceived injustice in his contrived disqualification by the APC screening committee, Obaseki’s defection to PDP and the combined forces of the three big men elicited public sympathy and solidarity.
 
It was therefore easy for the masses to connect to the narratives that the governor’s travails revolve around overbearing godfather influence and attempt to treat him as a political orphan. While Edo people alleged that Captain Hosa was trying to position himself effectively as a possible candidate of Esama of Benin by supporting Ize-Iyamu against Obaseki, the current occupant was said to have mobilised the people against the move to supplant the incumbent governor.  A former member of the state House of Assembly, Mr. Ogieriakhi, a lawyer, explained that there was a groundswell of opinion among Edo people that godfather should be totally dismantled, stressing that that rallying cry united the people behind Obaseki.  Incumbency Goodwill 
BARELY two weeks to the election, former Edo State commissioner for Justice, Chief Henry Idahagbon, told The Guardian that APC was optimistic of winning four out of the seven council areas of Edo South Senatorial District, stressing that the party’s candidate, Ize-Iyamu was better accepted than Obaseki, who also hails from the District. 
 
Idahagbon claimed also that the fact that Obaseki did not do much for the Senatorial district in terms of projects or provision of infrastructure amenities would hurt him so bad at the poll.
   
But, as the polls opened, voters from Edo South Senatorial District were more strident in the proclamation of ‘4 plus 4 Ogbane’ (Two terms of four years apiece must be completed) for the incumbent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .