 To support the government’s effort at curbing the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19), over 150 hand-washing stations have been provided to high-risk areas across the country. Photo: GETTYIMAGES  The gesture, courtesy of Procter & Gamble (P&G), is the second phase of its “Protect Our Heroes” mission – the company’s Force for Good programme to support the government’s efforts at curbing the pandemic. In implementing this phase, the company partnered the Federal Government, Federal Ministry of Health, Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Kwara, Ekiti, Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Anambra, and the Delta States, to install contactless hand washing stations in public areas, such as hospitals and markets and bus stops to promote handwashing practices. Since April, the company has donated over N100m worth of hygiene products and hand washing stations in the first and second phases. The company’s Senior Director for Africa for Global Government Relations and Public Policy, Mrs. Temitope Iluyemi said: “We have continued to deliver on our promise of improving the lives of people in the communities where we live and work. Through our hygiene products and awareness campaign, P&G has been at the forefront of the global battle and locally in Nigeria to curb the spread of infectious diseases including COVID-19, and build the lifelong habits of handwashing. “Hand hygiene as we all know is crucial in fighting diseases such as COVID-19 and with the donation of our hand washing stations through our “Protect Our Heroes Missions,” we want to ensure we are promoting hygiene and inculcating the habit of regular hand washing, as all forms of lockdown are being lifted. “Proper hand washing and general hygiene will consolidate on the progress Nigeria has recorded in its fight against COVID-19. P&G has a long history of supporting our communities in times of need all around the world. Since the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, P&G globally has stepped up its commitment to be a force for good…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .