One of the saddest things that happen to a player is not being able to practice his/her sport. It is as frustrating as it is boring not being able top do something that has become a part of you. This is more so when you know the type of skills God has given you. Such is the current experience of Adaugo Martins, the first Lady Captain of Air Force Base Golf Club, Port Harcourt. Martins laments that there are so many negative and adverse effects of not being able to play golf, the game she loves so passionately, because of the current coronavirus pandemic that has almost crippled the sports sector. The Port Harcourt based lady golfer, who belongs to many clubs, including Python Golf Club, where she served as Competition Secretary in the ladies section in 2019, Goodluck Ebele Jonathan Golf Club Abuja, where she was also an executive at the ladies section, as well as the Air Force Base Golf Club, said she has lost all her swings, and has been forced to start taking lessons from a professional trainer. Martins, who plays off handicap 18, reveals she joined the golfing family in 2016, and have been playing the game practically five days in every week until the outbreak of the coronavirus. Lamenting the effects of the COVID-19 on her sport, Martins confessed that being absent from the game has affected her so much that she has developed arthritis in the right side now. “Golf is a great game to me. I derive much joy and gladness socialising with the elite, well-cultured people and intellectuals. Working round the big golf course and burning calories helps my wellbeing. “Now, I have been fighting arthritis for the past three weeks in my left side because I cannot not play golf due to global pandemic. Now, I am taking lessons from my professional because I have lost my swing, and I am also trying to play with the arthritis pain,” she lamented. Martins, who has won many valuable prizes at the amateur cadre in many golf tournaments, including all expenses paid trips both home and overseas, is happy that she will soon have the opportunity to return to the course and play the beautiful game back. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .