Jannik Sinner from Italy defeated 11th-seeded David Goffin of Belgium 7/6, 6/0, and 6/3 in the first ever match in the newly roofed Phillipe Chatrier Stadium on a cold French Open day in Paris. It was his second career victory over Goffin, who he defeated in Rotterdam in February this year. The lanky 19-year old Jannik held his serve to lead 6-5 and broke Goffin’s serve to clinch the first set 7/5. He took the opening game of the second set while Goffin conceded a break. Thereafter, it was a one-way run to end the set 6-0. The youngster had an answer to every shot by his opponent and ended taking points after many long rallies. The onslaught continued as Sinner took the first three games for 12 consecutive games. In the fourth game, Sinner raced down a ball to his far left and sent the ball round the net pole for a winner to level 30-30. The Belgian held for 3-1 but Sinner extended the lead to 4-1. At that stage, Goffin changed tactics and floated ball deep to Sinner’s baseline. This gave him a 40-0 lead but two winners brought him to deuce before he took the sixth game. In the sixth game, Goffin hit a ball that dipped low at the feet of Sinner, who made a half volley winner and turned full circle. He proceeded to hold to 5-2. A routine hold by Goffin reduced the tally 5-3. Serving for the match, Jannik reached match point at 40-0, lost one and closed out the game when Goffin hit a forehand wide. Jannik was the 2019 Next Gen champion on home soil. He defeated Stefanos Tsitsipas 6/1, 6/7(9), 6/2 before losing to Grigor Dimitrov in Rome. He turned 19 on August 16, 2020. Simona Halep of Romania defeated Spain’s Sara Sorribes Tormo 6/4, 6/0 in their first career meeting. Halep attacked throughout while her opponent retrieved balls from every corner of the court. The Spanish lady broke Halep’s serve to lead 3-1 in the first set. An exchange of breaks had Halep leading 4-3, while a break of Tormo’s serve gave the top seed the first set 6-4. Halep won the first five games in the second set. Serving for the match, she dropped the first point but rallied to reach 40-30 match point. During a long rally, Sara broke the string on her racket but Halep was taken to deuce when she failed to put the ball in play. However, she got the first advantage and clinched the match when Sara missed a service return. It was an apt birthday present for the top seeded Romanian. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .