 Ayanfe  With a new single, African vibe gradually gaining airplay on radio stations, and an EP in the offing, the artiste is not shy to embrace being touted as the next big thing in the industry. Speaking about how music has changed his life for good, Ayanfe, who is signed to Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) and Obama Music, revealed that a whole lot of things have changed about him. He believes that his life is essentially music and it is difficult for anything outside music to divert his attention as his journey to DMW is nothing but graceful. “A whole lot of things have changed and I am particularly excited about what we are bringing to music lovers. I am happy to be part of this (DMW/Obama) family. “My journey here is nothing outside grace; I’m grateful for all I’ve got and many more to come. The journey has just begun and we want to keep giving fans something to keep talking and thinking about. Music is something that makes me happy and alive. It makes me extremely alive. I’d rather sit at home and write a song than go out partying.” The fast rise to prominence and subsequent acceptance by fans appears to have given him an edge among his peers and with a new single doing rounds on airwaves, Ayanfe is seen by many music enthusiasts as the next big thing on the entertainment stage. On his resolve to drop out of school to face the music, the singer explained that the decision is not a costly one when looking at the success that has come his way. “I got an opportunity and I had to take it. Soon, people will start seeing that I have what it takes and I am not a fluke. Even with the numbers ‘African vibe’ has got, I’m happy that fans are appreciating quality music. I’m returning to school soon though.” Describing his journey with the record label as that of grace, he said, “I call it grace and I’m grateful for all I’ve got and the many more to come. The journey has just begun and we’ve got all hands on deck to give fans something to keep talking about.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .