The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has raised the alarm over alleged harassment of its governors who went to Edo State for the purpose of today’s governorship election in the state. Addressing journalists in a press conference, the National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, said while Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo state and the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege were chilling in the Benin home of Adams Oshiomhole, PDP governors were being harassed in the state’s capital. Secondus said: “Hope Uzodinma and Ovie Omo-Agege are in the home of the former chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oshiomhole. PDP governors are being harassed in Westend Hotel, Benin. “Policemen have surrounded the hotel and their lives are in danger. We call on the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to ask the police to leave the place because their lives are in danger. If APC governors are in Benin, the PDP governors should be in Benin too. Our governors would remain in Benin; no one can intimidate us. “We are bringing this to the attention of the international community. Elections must be free. Elections must be allowed to hold. You cannot allow APC governors in Edo and bar PDP governors,” he said. The chairman of the party in Rivers State, Akawor Desmond, has also warned that the IGP would be held responsible if any harm befalls Wike while in Edo. Desmond said the entire people of the state were aware of the siege laid to the hotel where Wike was lodging. “Recall that Wike was appointed Chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council for Edo governorship election. This is same position Governor Ganduje of Kano State occupies for his party the APC. “Ganduje and Uzodinma are all in Benin, carrying out their assignment for the APC without any molestation or intimidation,” he alleged. Desmond alleged that security agencies were harassing and intimidating Wike even when he did no wrong. “May I, on behalf of entire Rivers people, warn that we shall hold the IGP responsible for anything that happens to our governor,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .