We’ve rescued five victims, say police
Tunga Maji community in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) is under tension as gunmen invaded the area yesterday and abducted over 30 residents. A resident, Ezekiel Denzi, told The Guardian that the gunmen kidnapped the persons after a prolonged gun battle with the community vigilante members in the early hours of the day. Another resident, Mrs. Pius Bala, said the shooting started about 1a.m. and lasted more than an hour before the local security was overpowered. Bala said: “It is very unfortunate that such an incident is happening in this hard period. We could not sleep throughout the night. It is this morning that the vigilantes told us about 20 people that were abducted. “We heard last week that the authorities were informed of the entrance of Boko Haram members into Abuja and environs, but nobody took the report seriously. We appeal to government for help before all of us are killed.” Last week, a report claimed that terrorists had build camps in some communities across the territory, but the military authorities rebuffed the claims. MEANWHILE, the FCT Police Command has assured the public that protection of life and property remained its core mandate and that it would continue to inject fresh strategies to secure the territory. The command also informed the public that when it received a distress call on kidnap of some persons about 0130hrs yesterday in Tungan Maje, a village bordering FCT and Niger State, a joint team of policemen from the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Rapid Response Squad (RRS) and Zuba Police Division responded swiftly to the occasion. A statement signed by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), FCT Command, DSP Anjuhuri Manzah, said that during a fierce gun confrontation with the heavily armed hoodlums, the police team successfully rescued five of the victims. He added that there were efforts to rescue the remaining victims from the hoodlums who escaped into Niger through a nearby rocky forest. The command reassured members of the public of its commitment to proactive crime-fighting in the FCT. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .