President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan (left); Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; President Muhammadu Buhari; Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila and Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi at the closing ceremony of the First Year Ministerial Performance Review Retreat at the State House, Abuja… recently. PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as alarming the directive given by President Muhammadu Buhari to ministers and other officials of his administration to “go on the offensive” in marketing government’s policies and programmes. According to the opposition party, such order could worsen the psychological state of Nigerians who are patriotically crying out under the burden of economic hardship. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP asserted that such directive at a ministerial retreat which ought to be a problem-solving forum, was symptomatic of an administration that “has become overwhelmed by the reality of its own failures and is now seeking desperate measures to suppress the voice of the people.” The party declared that such “anti-people stance amounts to a huge betrayal of the President’s promise to abide by democratic ethos.” PDP said it was sad that the Buhari administration could seek to punish agitations by Nigerians for good governance, security and basic necessities of life, particularly at the time they are calling for reduction in the cost of fuel and electricity. “By directing his ministers to go on the offensive, is Mr. President drawing a battle line between his government and Nigerians, who have been subjected to a life of misery in the last five years?” PDP queried. The party also berated President Buhari’s ministers for insulting the sensibilities of Nigerians “by organising a feasting retreat in the luxury of an air-conditioned room, where they engaged in deceptive self-praise for non-existent achievements while the government they serve has turned our nation to the capital of poverty of the world and foisted the worst form of hardship on our citizens.” According to the PDP, Buhari appears not to be worried that under his watch, Nigerians can no longer afford their staple food and other basic necessities of life and that mortality rate has spiraled because of hardship and unabated bloodletting in our country. “The president seems unperturbed that under his administration, the price of a bag of rice has risen from N8000 to N35,000; a measure of corn from N80 to N400; garri, from N150 to N400; beans, from N200 to N500, while fuel has been hiked from N87 to N162, with attendant hardship on the people.” “Also Mr. President appears not to be worried that the cost of medication, transportation, house rents, education, building materials and machineries have all skyrocketed and that majority of Nigerians cannot achieve the littlest of their legitimate dreams under his rule,” the statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .