• Panic as odour oozes from dumpsite into Govt House
• Northern PDP youths demand justice for slain colleague Suspected cultists, at the weekend, invaded one of the Pentecostal churches in Inen Ikot Esse Village, OrukAnam Local Council, shooting the church elder while members of the church fled for safety. The Guardian gathered that the cultists, numbering 10, stormed the church premises at exactly 7:05 a.m. and went straight to the vestry where church officers were praying before commencement of the service. An eyewitness, Mr. Sunday Ibanga, said that the elder was accosted and shot severally on the head, causing other members of the church to lie low as the assailants engaged in a shooting spree in the church premises. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), SP Odiko Mcdon, who confirmed the incident, said the perpetrators of the crime would soon be arrested to face the wrath of the law. “I can confirm the incident in Inen Ikot Esse, OrukAnam Local Council. It is unfortunate that such an incident happened in the church premises. It was the police that rushed the victim to hospital for treatment.” IN another development, workers and others doing business around Akwa Ibom State Government House have expressed fears over possible outbreak of epidemic as dumpsite along Uyo Village Road sends offensive stench into the seat of government. The state’s Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Charles Udoh, while reacting to the ugly situation, said the government was aware of the situation and was working towards ameliorating it. MEANWHILE, northern youths of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State have demanded justice for the slain PDP youth leader, Charles Onwe. Onwe was said to have been lynched on the eve of the Northern Senatorial primary at the compound of the Commissioner for Local Governments, Mrs. Stella Odey-Ekpo, at Ogaga in Ogoja Local Council as he resisted attempt by supporters loyal to the state government’s candidate to be taken to where others were camped at Obudu for the primary. Secretary of the Concerned Youth of Northern Senatorial, Mr. John Ajegi, who spoke with newsmen yesterday at the Ernest Etim Bassey Press Centre, said: “We will stop at nothing to ensure justice is done. We are youths and farmers of Ukelle. We have never witnessed this before in Cross River North and we as concerned youths, will never allow such incident again.” But reacting, Mrs. Odey-Ekpo declined to comment on the incident, saying: “The matter is before the police and as such, I cannot give any comment for now.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .