 Henry Seriake Dickson  Reinstating incumbency
PERHAPS, it was in the understanding of the perceived plots by APC that Governor Diri swiftly filed his appeal against the tribunal judgment, even as APC supporters in the state continued to spread the notion that Diri was not allowed to appeal.
 
But renouncing the claims as lacking in substance, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Diri, Daniel Alabra, told The Guardian by telephone that nothing of such existed, stressing that the governor filed his notice of appeal without any objection. 
 
According to the notice of appeal filed on his behalf by a legal team, led by Chris Uche, Diri prayed the Court of Appeal to set aside the majority ruling, which invalidated the governorship poll by upholding the minority opinion of Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, the chairman of the three-man tribunal.  Return of Dickson  
WHILE Diri’s appeal could reinstate PDP’s incumbency, the decision of the state chapter to hand Dickson automatic ticket puts the governing party in pole position to clinch Bayelsa West Senatorial District by-election scheduled for October 31, 2020.
 
Citing due respect to the former governor, The Guardian gathered that stakeholders and top political actors on the PDP platform from Bayelsa West declined from picking the party’s nomination form for the Senatorial District.
 
It would be recalled that Dickson had earlier picked the nomination and expression of interest form for Bayelsa West Senatorial District, just as he explained through a statement by his Media Advisor, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, that his decision to join the contest for the vacant senatorial seat followed overwhelming endorsements and calls on him by critical stakeholders to fill the vacant senatorial seat.  However, not everyone is charmed by PDP’s decision to field Dickson again. As a result, a former Deputy Governor, Chief Peremobowei Ebebi’s decision to join the contest for the vacant Bayelsa West Senatorial District seat is generating heat and division among stakeholders in the state. While some political stakeholders have expressed discomfort with Ebebi’s decision because, according to them, his entry violates an unwritten agreement on power rotation between the two local government areas that make up the district, others have kicked against the candidature of Dickson, arguing that government must not be a family affair. The latter group, led by former aides to the former governor of the state and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, said they strongly believe that equality and fair play should be the watchword in deciding who occupies the vacant seat. Bayelsa West Senatorial District is made up of Sagbama and Ekeremor Local Government Areas of the state. While Ebebi, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress, is from Ekeremor, Dickson, a leader of the Peoples Democratic Party, is from Sagbama. It was learnt that the positions of senator and member of House of Representatives in Bayelsa West Senatorial District are shared between the two LGAs. It was gathered that top political stakeholders recently held a meeting where it was decided that the people of Ekeremor should not contest the vacant position in adherence to the existing agreement on power rotation since they already have the incumbent House of Representatives member. But in a release signed by Chief Bodi Arerebo and Chief Perekeme Kpodo, both former aides and elders of APC from Sagbama Local Government Area, said the endorsement of former Governor Dickson by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was a violation of an earlier gentlemen agreement. According to APC chieftains, Dickson had served four years at the House of Representatives and eight years as governor of the state, so he should give other people the chance to serve since it is not a family affair. Arerebo added, “You see, that is the reason why some of us have added our voice to the numerous Sagbama and Ekeremor people that Governor Dickson should give a chance to others, to be honest and candid. “Dickson, when he was in the House of Reps, his friend and in-law Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor, was with him. When he became governor, the same Ewhrudjakpor was with him. Then he sent him to the senate and he brought Ewhrudjakpor back to become deputy governor. He now wants to go to senate. Is it a family affair or something? It shouldn’t be. “There is a zoning formula. He (Dickson) is the person that is breaching it. So, that is why we are saying that Ekeremor should produce the next senator.” Bayelsa West Senatorial seat became vacant following the resignation of Senator Ewhrudjakpo from the upper legislative chamber to contest as running mate to Governor Douye Diri. However, Arerebo’s position is contrary to what some political leaders from both local government areas agreed in a joint statement where it was said that Sagbama should complete the tenure of Ewhrudjakpo. That way, an Ekeremor person would start a fresh tenure in the spirit of the age-long agreement on power sharing or rotation in the area. They argued that the former deputy governor, who has indicated interest in the Senatorial contest, is from the same Ekeremor LGA as Mr. Fred Agbedi, who represents the area in the lower chamber. They insisted that opposition to an Ekeremor candidate cuts across party lines, as the key political operators from the two LGAs continue to insist on the existing power sharing arrangement. Prominent APC politicians and coordinators in Ekeremor Constituency 1, in collaboration with APC Grassroots Mobilisation Sagbama/Ekeremor, have on many occasions condemned in strong terms the decision of Ebebi or any other person from Ekeremor to contest in the senatorial election. But Chairman, APC Mobilisation Group, Mr. Ebide Brown, claimed that stakeholders in the local government area would resist any unconscionable assault on the zoning arrangement. He said it was unjust and unfair for an Ekeremor person to contest in the Senatorial election with Fred Agbedi occupying the House of Representatives seat in the National Assembly. He said: “No candidate can undermine the tenets of the zoning arrangement and expect us to work for him. We have resolved not to work for any candidate from Ekeremor because it is wrong. The candidate of APC in the senatorial by-election should be from Sagbama since Fred Agbedi is in the House of Representatives now. “We cannot deviate from the zoning arrangement between Sagbama and Ekeremor. The zoning arrangement must be honoured for the sake of posterity and I expect my party, the APC, to do so. We cannot just go against the wishes of the people and count only on federal might to win election.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .