 Adefemi  Childhood Influence
MY childhood played a major role in the woman I am today. A single mother raised me, so, when my marriage failed and I became a single mother myself, I knew I had to stand out. I had to own up to the status without shame or a call for pity. I consider being a single mum my superpower and this is where I find the strength to not conform to any societal mentality of who or what single mothers represent. Inspiration behind Feminitease
I have a desire to see women succeed, to have an easier life than what is readily available in our immediate society. Feminitease represents trading and shopping with ease for women. Women like to own their own corner, we like platforms that bring us together. Research shows that women with a group of other strong women are more likely to succeed. This is the core of the Feminitease vision, to see women succeed in their life and business. The Journey so far
So far, we are getting a lot of positive feedback and acceptance. We are positive that Feminitease is a need in our time. Feminitease helping user and the buyer experience
The platform is available to all; it is free to users, though there are packages for vendors who would like us to promote their products for exposure and sales. There are several categories on site and we are creating more categories as the need arises. Buyers will be exposed to variety; they will be spoilt for choice under one platform rather than going from one e-commerce site to another. Feminitease is making sure to bring vendors that will cover a woman’s every need. Another good thing is that business relationships will be formed as buyers and sellers meet. My platform for Single Moms
The sMothers tribe, this platform is the magic place for single mums. I started it 3 years ago and I can proudly say that I and many other single mums are better today because of the tribe. The sMothers tribe was born out of a need for support and fellowship among single mums. There’s nothing as soothing as knowing that your struggles are not peculiar to you, and learning to overcome through the experiences of people who have been through similar struggles and won. We are a close-knit community; we grew from strangers to friends until we became sisters. (Sister’s sister ) Society’s reception to single moms
Not enough, but way better than it used to be years ago. At least, I remember how difficult growing up as a child of a single mother was for me, the stigma both on mother and child. Society is coming around to accept that life and parenting is not a one-way street; there are lots of diversions and intersections along the way. If life happens to you, you make the best out of the experience and ‘happen to live’ too. Motherhood is a blessing no matter the circumstances. Women are coming to terms with their powers and are pushing back at society. Soon, it would not matter anymore if you were a single mother or not; what would matter would be the impact and difference we made with our lives. Challenges of being a Social Entrepreneur
They are quite some challenges but standing out among them is getting the right audience and resources required for visibility and growth. Feminitease in 5 years
Our vision is that Feminitease will be a major tool for growth and development for women in Nigeria and beyond. Being a Woman of Rubies
I will say I stand out in many ways. I consider myself a unique woman and there’s only one of me; my strength, my resilience, my shamelessness, and my pride. My loving heart and my untamed mind. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .