The winner of the lockdown series of the reality TV show Big Brother Naija Olamilekan Agbelesebioba may still be celebrating his win but Lagos and Ogun State governments are already reminding him of his tax responsibility. Laycon is yet to receive his prizes from the organizers of the show. He was declared the winner of the show with viewers across Africa on Sunday, September 27. He defeated 19 other housemates to win the coveted N85million worth of prizes after spending 71 days in the house. For winning the show, Laycon will be rewarded N30million cash prize, an SUV from Innoson Motors, a two-bedroom apartment courtesy of Revolution Plus, a trip to Dublin, Ireland, courtesy of Guinness Nigeria Plc, home appliances courtesy of Scanfrost, one year supply of Pepsi Cola, one year supply of Munch It and Indomie noodles, and VIP tickets to watch the European Champions League final. While the frenzy is still on for Laycon, Lagos and Ogun State authorities have asked him to pay taxes from the cash and other prices he got from the reality TV show. “Congratulations Laycon winner BBNaija Lockdown edition,” Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) tweeted. “More wins!! We look forward to seeing you in Y2021 as you #payyourtax.” Soon after, Ogun State’s tax collection agency demanded the same from Laycon. “The Ogun State Internal Revenue Service is delighted to congratulate one of our own in the State, Olamilekan Agbelesebioba, AKA @itsLaycon for emerging winner of @BBNaija Lockdown. We look forward to having a robust relationship with you in year 2021 as you pay your tax,” the agency tweeted. Ogun State governments may not be able to tax Laycon for the earnings from his celebrated BBNaija win. While Laycon is an indigene of Ogun State, he does not live and work there. The house and major assets Laycon won are located in Lagos State where he resides. Laycon is yet to speak on the tax demands from both states as at the time of filing this report. Ogun State governor Dapo Abiodun said Laycon’s “academic and social engagements” during the show is a “confirmation of your brilliance, intellect and maturity.” “Youths of Ogun State, Nigeria, Africa and in fact the world over, see you as the face of positive revolution in the history of African entertainment,” Abiodun said in his congratulatory message.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .