 Donald Duke  The debate on restructuring the country and also carrying out judicial reform have refused to go away since the emergence of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, given the many ills in the clumsy political structure. Many believe that restructuring the federation is long overdue and have called for urgent reset of the country on a more equitable nmodel for it to move forward.
 
Those who recently added their voices to the debate on restructuring included President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Dr. John Nwodo; elder statesman and Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo; former governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko; former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, and Second Republic governor of the old Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa, among others.
 
Also, a former governor of Cross River State, Donald Duke, at a virtual development discourse with a development economist and public analyst, Patrick Okigbo III, facilitated by Nextier, which had as theme ‘Getting Big Things Done in Government,’ stated that Nigeria is run as a mediocre system.  “In the 2019 Corruption Perception Index, Nigeria ranked 146th out of the 180 countries surveyed worldwide and came in 32nd out of the 49 countries surveyed in the sub-Saharan African region. Against this backdrop, Nigeria has a crop of leaders who lack the competence or the political will to drive the country forward.
Instead, political office has deteriorated over time into an avenue for self-aggrandisement and enrichment.
 
“With ethnicity ranking high above nationality, there is ample opportunity for the political elite in the country to manipulate these divisions to further their personal interests. The result is a fragmented nation that can hardly come together to achieve the common goal of development.”
 
Okigbo stated that the presence of vast natural resources not only brings in revenue but also acts as a breeding ground for conflict, environmental degradation and corruption, adding, “On paper, Nigeria’s core assets (natural and human resources) should position the country as a leader in development, but there is a disconnect in reality and the observed outcomes. The cause of this paradoxical situation has long been a topic of debate.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .