In line with efforts to ensure tight security towards a hitch-free Edo State gubernatorial election next Saturday, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has deployed the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Adeleye Olusola Oyebade, in charge of Research and Planning to supervise all security arrangements for the election. Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Frank Mba, who disclosed this yesterday in Abuja, said Oyebade would be assisted by an Assistant Inspector-General of Police, AIG Karma Hosea Hassan, in charge of Federal Operations at the Force Headquarters Abuja and eight Commissioners of Police. The DIG, with the assistance of the AIG, would superintend the entire security architecture and ensure effective monitoring of the election and due enforcement of all electoral laws in the state. The Commissioners of Police that would also be involved in election monitoring and evaluation include CP Garba Baba Umar, CP Habu Sani, and CP Buba Sanusi. CP Akeera M. Yonous would coordinate the operations of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) and other special strike forces. The other four CPs would supervise security arrangements in the three senatorial districts of the state. They are CP Omololu .S. Bishi and CP Abutu Yaro (Edo North senatorial district); CP Philip Aliyu Ogbadu (Edo Central Senatorial District) and CP Olokade T. Olawale, Edo South Senatorial District. Meanwhile, the IGP has barred security aides attached to VIPs and political appointees from accompanying their principals on Election Day. “The IGP warns that anyone who flouts this order will be severely reprimanded. The IGP also charged officers and men on election duties in the state to ensure they work in line with standard best practices and adhere strictly to the approved Code of Conduct and Rules of Engagement for the elections. “He calls on members of the public particularly politicians, gubernatorial candidates, and other relevant stakeholders in the state to cooperate with the Police and other security agencies in the patriotic task of guaranteeing a hitch-free gubernatorial poll,” Mba said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .