Sports betting outfit, 1960Bet, which recently rejiggered its operations, has unveiled its new management and a new logo to reposition the brand. The company said yesterday in Lagos that its new management is on a mission to take the company back to its position as the market leader and mitigate the challenges as well as the cutting-edge competition of the Nigerian Sports betting industry. According to the company’s Executive Director, Oluwatosin Ayoola, the new management is in a position to give punters’ value for their money, as well as to create a premium brand after a successful transition. Ayoola said, “We are very excited that a better than the former glory days of 1960Bet are here. We are stepping up to a higher level never seen before in the industry in terms of making it easier for our customers to play and win, paying agent commissions into their bank account, paying winnings promptly, providing jobs and a profitable entrepreneurial platform for those seeking exciting money-spinning opportunities that we provide.” “The company has a huge customer base due to its ability to always give punters the best betting market options and odds. 1960Bet is licensed and regulated by the Lagos State Lotteries Board and other lottery regulatory bodies in the country. “1960Bet is known for several corporate social responsibility projects and sponsorship programmes, including headline sponsorship of Copa Lagos 2014, the resurgence of boxing in Nigeria broadcast live on satellite TV (GOtv Boxing Night), headline sponsorship of Stationery Stores Football Club, sponsorship of 11 sports fans to Brazil 2014 World Cup and promoting grassroots football through the provision of sports kits to local football teams in various local governments across the federation.” Ayoola added, “The company is not only bringing in new management but also reshaping customers’ experience to make betting a far more rewarding hobby. We are creating a new market niche to build confidence in our customers and also impact positively on the public. We are not just rebranding, we are well wired to re-invent the wheels of Sports betting in Nigeria. We are repositioned to keep our promise to our customers and new management.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .