Frank urges credible guber polls in Edo, Ondo The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, faulted President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to his ministers to begin aggressive propagation of government programmes and policies. It argued that there was no “achievements recorded by the Buhari administration that the ministers could publicise to Nigerians.” Addressing a group of women protesters at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja, the National Chairman, Uche Secondus, noted that Nigerians had become “frustrated as a result of the harsh economy imposed on them because of alleged lack of vision by government.” This came as a former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, charged the President to take practical steps to ensure credibility in the governorship elections holding this year in Edo and Ondo states. He charged the Nigerian leader to walk his talk on free and fair elections as canvassed by  him on Tuesday at the 57th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Heads of State and Government in Niamey, Niger Republic. According to Secondus, the “country is facing multiple crisis because the Buhari administration has not been able to locate its bearing on developmental issues.” “Buhari has failed in all his promises. And now there is a colossal failure in economy and other areas. People are going through hardship, pains and sorrow, yet no hope,” he claimed. The PDP chair said it was sad that the “President gathered his ministers at a retreat and ended without remedies to the myriad of problems.” He added: “Only yesterday (Tuesday), they gathered at ministerial retreat clapping for doing nothing. The government is a colossal failure in all directions. On security, killing is now everywhere. Hunger has risen to an unbearable level.” The main opposition party implored the current administration to “stop propaganda and face the problems by providing solutions.” It restated its opposition to the recent hike in fuel and electricity tariffs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .