The stage was won by Daniel Martinez (EF) with the BORA-hansgrohe duo of Lennard Kamna and Max Schachmann following him home.  NTT Pro Cycling (www.NTTProCycling.com), with other objectives to come in the race in mind, looked to limit potential losses for the South African champion Ryan Gibbons who struggled with stomach problems throughout the day. Gibbons fought to make contact with the last group on the road and once he did, managed to reasonably comfortably pace himself home within the time limit despite the formidable pace at the front of the race. The team now looks ahead towards stage 14 in what will likely be a very exciting day of racing. Ryan Gibbons
For me personally yes (It was one of the toughest days I’ve ever experienced). I’ve had harder days in terms of numbers and altitude metres and that but I woke up this morning with a bit of an upset stomach and I felt it. As I got out of the saddle in the neutral zone I was getting dropped so I knew it was not going to be a fun day. I was the first guy to get dropped and I’ve never experienced that before and I know what it feels like to be at the back, got back and then hit the first climb and got dropped again. I spent about 100km chasing and fortunately I had some mates from Lotto Soudal with Caleb (Ewan) and we made it back but glad to get today over with. To be honest I thought my Tour de France was over after 10km today and then again after 35km but really, really long day and hopefully I can feel better tomorrow but I think tomorrow’s going to be a fight nonetheless. Michael Gogl
I felt quite tired today and tomorrow is for sure the next opportunity so now I’m looking forward to recovering and shooting for tomorrow. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (www.NTTProCycling.com) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (www.Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd. :
NTT Ltd. (www.hello.global.NTT) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website: www.hello.global.NTT All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .