Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) announces the launch of EOS Webcam Utility, a free to download software that allows users to connect their compatible Canon DSLR and PowerShot camera to a Mac or PC computer, where it will be recognised as a USB webcam. Eliminating the need for additional equipment, the EOS Web Utility Software will enable users to replace their existing webcam and experience high-quality virtual meetings and video conferencing through their Canon camera.  With businesses seeking new ways to improve their employees video conferencing experience, Canon’s EOS Webcam Utility solution addresses the soaring demand for web cameras during lockdown, with just a USB connection and a compatible Canon camera [1]. This simple to use, free software can be downloaded from the Canon website and configured in minutes with a video conferencing application. The software, currently supported by Windows, will also be compatible with MacOS operating system [2] catering to a broad range of workflows.  Leading the way, this software brings Canon’s heritage for optical excellence and innovation to users, helping them achieve high-quality image quality during important video conferencing for the most professional set-up. With the impeccable sensor technology across Canon’s EOS and PowerShot line-up, users will notice an immediate improvement to the low-light performance, colour and depth-of-field, compared with traditional web cameras. The EOS Webcam Utility software will ensure work colleagues are viewed in crisp and true to life colour.  Amine Djouahra, Sales and Marketing Director at Canon Central and North Africa says, “We have a commitment to our customers around the world to provide the best in technical excellence and innovations, though our cameras, lenses, accessories and software. During these unprecedented times, Canon is harnessing the power of EOS technology to bring people together and provide a high-performance solution our customers can trust.”  Key features: Bundle kits available to purchase from Canon’s E-commerce store: For more information of Canon’s EOS Web Utility Software, please visit: www.Canon-CNA.com [1] EOS DSLR, EOS R, EOS M (EOS M50 or later), PowerShot (G5X MK II, G7X MK III, SX70 only) [2] Mac support date to be confirmed Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Ewetse Khama
e. Ewetse.khama@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .