In line with its affordable electricity agenda, the Lagos State Government has unveiled winners of its Lagos Smart Meter
Hackathon. It was initiated to address the metering needs of over 60 per cent of Lagosians estimated to be unmetered. The initiative, which is expected to leverage availability of local talents in Nigeria to develop and produce affordable smart electricity meters for consumers, has Team Power Bit Crunchers from the hardware category, and Team Zeena Platform from the Software group winning a combined prize money of N10 million. Olonma Ibrahim and Peter Okonma represented the hardware team, while Oluwasemi Oreoluwa and Adenitire Ayonikun represented the Software Team at the event. Speaking on the significance of the initiative at the announcement ceremony, the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said: “Today is a true hallmark in our administration’s pursuit to improve the welfare of our people. As you are aware, a key pillar of our administrations T.H.E.M.E.S agenda is to make Lagos a 21st century economy, and this Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon fits perfectly as it combines innovation, creativity and local capacity to deliver solutions that will improve access to electricity in Lagos.” He explained that the Smart Meter Initiative “is another demonstration of promise kept” by his administration, as “it aligns with the administrations’ T.H.E.M.E.S agenda to make Lagos a 21st century economy.” He said the initiative would drive local capacity that would find home grown solutions to solve our challenges, which “is a great move in transforming the electricity sector in the state.” Governor Sanwo-Olu promised that his administration would continue to support this initiative and that the outcomes of today’s programme has inspired his administration to do even more to drive local capacity and find home grown solutions, while taking advantage of global opportunities to solve our challenges. “The young people in Lagos and Nigeria have proven to be hardworking and brilliant and we will do all we can to support them through our various ministries, agencies, enabling policies and incentives,” he stated. He encouraged all participants, especially those that were not declared winners to never give up. “Everyone is a winner; someone must just be declared a winner to fulfil all righteousness.” He urged them to continue to persevere and improve, as his administration, through mentorship and other incentives, “is always ready and elated to support and collaborate in creative and innovative ideas that would improve living standards and grow the economy.” On his part, the Deputy Governor, Dr Kadiri Obafemi Hamzat, noted that “The Lagos Smart Meter Programme is an important way for the government to demonstrate its commitment to improving access to reliable and affordable smart meters to enhance the living conditions of the people. Dr. Hamzat continued, “the Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon, which is driving local talents to explore innovative and affordable ways to deliver smart meters for Lagos and Nigeria is a key priority for our administration and we truly appreciate the support of all the sponsors and partners of this initiative.” The convener of the Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon, the Commissioner for Energy & Mineral Resources, Lagos State, Olalere Odusote, said that the Hackathon received 274 registrations, out of which 127 are in the hardware category, while 147 competed in the software group.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .