• Disaster waiting to happen, expert warns
• Promote local fabric masks, NCF boss tells govt Waste from coronavirus Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) has become a new form of pollution as single-use plastic PPE floods drainages and oceans. Read More: Coronavirus – Africa: COVID-19 situation updates for week 36  Recent media reports, showing videos and photos of divers picking up masks and gloves in drainage channel and oceans, were wake-up calls for many, refocusing minds on the plastic pollution issue and a reminder that politicians, leaders and individuals need to address the problem of plastic pollution. 
   
If historical data is a reliable indicator, it can be expected that around 75 per cent of used masks, as well as other pandemic-related waste, will end up in landfills, or floating in the seas and beaches. The per capita consumption of plastics in Nigeria has grown yearly over the past ten years from 4.0 kg in 2007 to 6.5 kg in 2017 and it is estimated will rise to 7.5 kg in 2020 Nigeria is one of the largest importers and consumers of plastics on the continent.  Approximately, 14,200,000 tons of plastics in primary form were imported into Nigeria between 1996 and 2014. Approximately 3,420,000 tons total plastic were imported in the form of products and approximately 5,545,700 tons were imported as product components.
  
About 194,000 tons of plastic toys were imported over a six-year period. The total amount of plastics imported in primary form and as products equals 17,620,000 tons. The total volume of imported plastic, newly produced plastic and plastic components going into the technosphere was 23,400,000 tons. The huge amount of plastic and other polymers entering the technosphere in Nigeria has grave implications for marine litter, pollution, waste management and resource recovery. To tackle the issue, the National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) made it mandatory for industries and production outlets in the country to comply fully with Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) Programme. But experts further said solutions to plastic crisis needed focus on preventing more plastic from entering the market and on implementing and supporting zero waste communities and cities, alternative delivery systems and reusable products. The Director-General, Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano told The Guardian that COVID-19 brought a new challenge in plastic pollution.
 
He urged the government to support the use of local fabrics as face masks to boost the indigenous economy and create employment.  “I fear there’s a catastrophe waiting to happen if we don’t take action now, no matter how minute. It all starts from baby steps before taking giant strides which will ultimately need the backing of the government to combat plastic pollution,” she said. UNEP has warned that if the increase in medical waste, much of it made from environmentally harmful single-use plastics, is not managed soundly, it could lead to uncontrolled dumping. 
   
The likely consequences, says UNEP, include public health risks from infected used masks, and the open burning or uncontrolled incineration of masks, leading to the release of toxins in the environment and secondary transmission of diseases to humans.
 
Because of fears of these potential secondary impacts on health and the environment, UNEP has urged governments to treat the management of waste, including medical and hazardous waste, as an essential public service.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .