Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF) President, Kelechukwu Mbagwu, is thrilled that the sport has gained roots at the grassroots level through the various interventions made during his tenure. Mbagwu believes the various structures put in place by the NRFF to see that rugby gets the required awareness in the country will soon turn Nigeria to a regional rugby power. Speaking to The Guardian at the weekend, Mbagwu noted that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which has stalled sporting activities over the months, has stopped the NRFF from executing most of its programmes aimed at revamping the sport, adding that the federation would continue to look for ways to spread the sport to every part of the country. Mbagwu looked at the recent achievements of the national team, the Black Stallions that have put them in high esteem in African rugby, saying with time the country will measure up to the leading nations of the game. He called for corporate companies and private Nigerians to join forces with the federation to grow rugby, stressing that the sport is capable of putting Nigeria at the world map. “The journey so far has been successful. The NRFF has worked hard to ensure that all the 20 rugby teams across the federation get the required assistance. “Setting up the South-South, South East League to add to the already existing competitions has created more awareness of the game in schools and at the grassroots level. “For the game to continue waxing strong, we are planning to set up the Middle Belt league, which will take care of the states and players in that region. “Over the period of sports lockdown, palliatives were shared with various clubs to help their players in these trying times. “However, all the sporting activities lined up for this year, including the West African Rugby Series, the domestic leagues and other engagements, have been postponed till next year. “The Rugby Africa will be meeting any time soon to deliberate on the way forward on rugby. The outcome will be communicated to the media in due course.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .