Falcons •Rejects Equal Pay For Male And Female Players
After several months of suspense, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has declared that a new coach for the Super Falcons will be ready in two weeks time. The football body had said last week that ‘paper work’ was the only thing delaying the announcement of a new trainer for the women national team. However, the NFF President, Amaju Pinnick, confirmed in a chat with The Guardian yesterday that the new coach would be ready in two weeks time. “By the Grace of God, we will have a new coach for the Super Falcons in two weeks time,” Pinnick stated yesterday. Pinnick had on several occasions said the federation’s priority is to hire a top-quality coach for the Super Falcons to replace Swede coach, Thomas Dennerby, who left the position during the Olympic qualifiers in 2019. Dennerby pointed at irreconcilable differences with the NFF as his reason for leaving even when he still had a year left in his contract. Meanwhile, the NFF President has given reasons why it might be difficult for Nigeria to pay national team players the same wages irrespective of gender. The Brazilian Football Confederation and the English FA had announced equal pay for both male and female players, prompting calls by some football-loving Nigerians to the NFF to do the same. CBF president, Rogerio Caboclo, had announced on Wednesday that Brazil’s men and women’s national teams would be paid equally while the English FA on Thursday revealed that its women’s senior team players were paid the same match fees with their male counterparts since January. Pinnick told The Guardian yesterday that he does not want to be dragged into such issue for now saying. “I don’t want to join in such debate concerning equal payment of wages for both male and female players for now. Those agitating for such payment should know that Nigeria football is different from Brazil and England. So, count us out of it. That is all I have to say.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .