 Amotekun  The second point that is clear and unassailable justification for a decentralised policing is that local policing is the most effective form of policing. The officer who hails from within a community and is part of the unique culture, who understands the language and knows the terrain, who knows who is what and how, and who has a stronger attachment to the safety and peace of his own people can fight crime better than an outsider officer who may be less committed. He may also be regarded with suspicion and thereby rendered ineffective. 
 
Therefore, the clamour for a decentralised police is not recent and it indeed has become so loud that the All Progressives Congress (APC) party made it a major campaign issue in 2014/2015. If voted into power, the party promised, in its manifesto, to “begin widespread consultations to amend the Constitution to enable states and local governments to employ State and Community Police to address the peculiar needs of each community. This would mean setting boundaries for federal, state, and community police…” It is more than five years of an APC government. But like many of its promises to “change” governance for the better –including “devolving powers, duties and responsibilities to states and local governments in order to entrench true Federalism and the federal spirit,” this country has fared worse in all important indicators of development and progress. Indeed, the abysmal failure of the APC government to meet the constitutionally obligated “primary purpose of government” has forced states troubled by every imaginable act of criminality, to chart a path that will keep their citizens safe. This is the reason for Western Nigeria’s Security Network, which has in turn evolved into the Amotekun corps security networks of the states in the (southwest) geopolitical zone. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State in the zone had lamented that “it was so horrible that marauders laid siege to the highways as well as in the farmlands waiting to kidnap or devour anyone in sight.”  Surely, no responsible government worthy to be so-called will allow that. That Akeredolu’s fitting remark was part of the justification that was granted by the same Federal Government that is strangely desperate to frustrate the state security outfit. The second tier of government is granted powers under the Constitution to “make laws for the peace, order and good governance of the State or any part thereof…” provided such law does not violate the relevant provisions of the Constitution. At the launch of Amotekun in Ibadan in January 2019, Kayode Fayemi, the governor of Ekiti State, assured those jittery sensibilities that, “we are not creating a regional police force..:. But he also argued, rightly, that, as leaders of their people, state governors are duty-bound to uphold Section 14(2) of the Constitution, as well as “fashion out a way to  complement the work of the mainstream  security agencies  overstretched in their  efforts  to arrest the menace of widespread banditry.” At the same event in Ibadan, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State added that the purpose of setting up Amotekun is, “to keep our people safe, not fighting Nigeria but the elements among us that seek to destabilise our region.”  And while inaugurating the Osun Security Network and the Amotekun Independent Complaints Board, Governor Gboyega Oyetola said that “our ultimate solution to the situation of criminality is the collaboration with our sister states in the Southwest who share the same territory and destiny with us to found the Amotekun corps to police and secure the region and deliver peace to our people.” So, can anyone deny that the federal controlled security forces have been overwhelmed by the enormity of criminality in this country?  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .