MACBAN dissociates self from Mailafia’s ordeal Southerm Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has called on the police to disarm Fulani herdsmen, in line with the Inspector-General of Police (IGP)’s directive. The IGP, Mohammed Adamu, had called on those in possession of prohibited firearms in the country to surrender them or face penalties. SOKAPU’s call was on the heels of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN)’s dissociation from the ordeal of Dr. Obadiah Mailafia by the Directorate of State Services (DSS). The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of SOKAPU, Luka Binniyat, urged security operatives in the state to ensure that all armed herdsmen in Kaduna were stripped of the sophisticated arms they use to terrorise the natives. He said: “It is the armed Fulani herdsmen that have been using sophisticated arms to attack Southern Kaduna. In the process, a lot of our people have been kidnapped, killed and rendered homeless. “Our people in Southern Kaduna are not known to possess sophisticated arms. Hunters are only doing their business with registered Dane guns. The police should demobilise, arrest, and bring them (killer herders) to justice. “Our people, who have been dispossessed of their ancestral homes, are now refugees in so many Internally-Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps. As many as 104 communities have been overrun.” Meanwhile, MACBAN has said that Mailafia should be allowed to bear his cross, asking SOKAPU to count it out of his travails. In a statement by its National Secretary, Usman Ngelzerma, MACBAN said it received with dismay a statement by SOKAPU on the invitation of Mailafia by the DSS. “We read with dismay a statement by SOKAPU on the invitation by the DSS of Dr. Obadiah Mailafia carried by an online publication, on September 14, 2020, in which SOKAPU tried to draw MACBAN into the controversy surrounding his invitation. “Among groups and individuals SOKAPU is accusing of making reckless statements, MACBAN was mentioned as having claimed responsibility for some ‘deadly attacks’ on communities across the country.” “We want to make it clear that MACBAN is a responsible association led by responsible personalities that have never and will never claim responsibility for irresponsible acts or any form of criminality,” he said. According to the cattle breeders, it is illogical for SOKAPU to drag itself or other groups and individuals into the controversy unless Mailafia was making such statements on behalf of SOKAPU. “We have had enough intolerance and bloodbath in this country. It is time the elite-constituted pressure groups like SOKAPU allowed peace to reign, and work towards an end to strife and belligerence.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .