 Tunisian forensic police investigate the site of an attack on Tunisian National Guard officers on September 6, 2020, in Sousse, south of the capital Tunis. – Attackers with knives killed a Tunisian National Guard officer and wounded another before three assailants were shot dead in a firefight, the security force said, labelling it a “terrorist attack”. The attack took place in the tourist district of the coastal city of Sousse, the site of the worst of several jihadist attacks in recent years, where 38 people, most of them Britons, were killed in a 2015 beachside shooting rampage. (Photo by Bechir TAIEB / AFP)  The attackers struck early Sunday morning in the tourist district of Sousse, ramming the officers with a vehicle and then assailing them with knives. Three assailants were later shot dead in a firefight, the National Guard said, labelling the attack a “terrorist” act. The wounded officer was “in a stable condition”, interior ministry spokesman Khaled Hayouni told AFP. Since Sunday, “43 people have been questioned and seven of them arrested,” Guard spokesman Houcem Eddine Jebabli told private station Radio Shems. They included “the wife of one of the assailants, who described her husband as a ‘martyr’ during the interrogation,” he said. Two brothers of one of the attackers and a person suspected of recruiting them were also arrested, he added. He said the attackers were a pair of twins and a third man from the marginalised northwestern region of Siliana, he said, without confirming or denying reports of a fourth attacker. Jebabli said the twins had visited Facebook pages dealing with “explosive and armed attacks” but had stayed under the radar of the authorities. Tunisia, since its 2011 revolution, has been hit by a string of jihadist attacks that have killed dozens of security personnel, civilians and foreign tourists. Sunday’s attack took place close to the site of the deadliest attack, when 38 people, most of them Britons, were killed in a 2015 beachside shooting rampage. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .