• Urges Obaseki to form inclusive, stable government
National Consultative Front (NCFront) has commend Edo people for the relative peace witnessed during the election in Edo State, noting credibility of the electoral process, in spite of the violent build up. In a statement signed by Comrade Isa Aremu, Dr. Tanko Yinusa, Prince Chris Azor, Georgina Dakpokpo, Ayaba Olubunmi and Ejiro Ofoye, it said, “Therefore, while congratulating the winner of the elections, we wish to call on Governor Godwin Obaseki, the winner of this historic election, to be magnanimous in victory by extending the hand of fellowship to all his fellow contestants in building a united and stable government and state for the good people of Edo.” It called on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as election management body in Nigeria, to always ensure that improved elections logistics are henceforth put in place and deployed in a timely manner. The group also urged the commission to urgently deploy the latest technology required to make elections transparent and credible in Nigeria so that elections are not ruined by violence and ultimately decided by the courts instead of the electorate, as was the case in Imo State, among others. Also, Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku of Taraba State yesterday commended the people of Edo State for demonstrating maturity by their peaceful conduct during and after the just-concluded governorship election The governor, who made the commendation via a press statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, said the maturity displayed by the people thwarted the dreams of those who had earlier predicted that the election would be engulfed in crisis. Ishaku, who was elated by the outcome of the exercise, also commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for providing the level playing field that “led to the credible results delivered in the election.” He urged the commission not to cease from replicating the same in subsequent elections across the country. While joining the league of other Nigerians to congratulate the winner of the said election, Ishaku described the victory “as an acknowledgement of the good job the governor had rendered to the people of the state in his first tenure.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .