 Governor Obaseki with victims of human trafficking  But now back home, some returnees lucky to be alive, say it is always not greener.   A returnee from Libya, Rescue Esosa, said she was glad to return home and be reintegrated into the society in Edo. “I am glad to return home and start my life again in Nigeria after all the troubles I went through in Libya in search of greener pastures. The pain and experience I went through trying to cross over to Italy were unbearable. I lost my friends to the desert and some at sea. I had better stay and invest in my country than risk my life in the hands of smugglers. I am glad to have something doing now,” she said. Another returnee said she decided to leave Nigeria without the knowledge of her husband because of hard life, as her husband could not care for her three children. She left Nigeria with the help of a woman she paid money in Libya. The returnee said she left with a pregnancy and she tried to abort the pregnancy about six times while on the journey but it failed. “I gave birth to twins, the boy died, while I brought back the girl. It was the greatest mistake of my life but I am happy to begin again with new hope.”
 
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) report states that 70 per cent of people irregularly migrating from Nigeria are from Edo. According to UNHCR’s Senior Liaison Officer, Amah Assiama-Hillgartner, during the agency’s Telling the Real Story (TRS) meeting, she described Nigeria as the country of transit and trafficking of irregular emigrants.  Receiving the latest batch of returnees, the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Prof Yinka Omorogbe, said the administration had, in the last three years and eight months, stemmed the scourge of illegal migration through massive investment in the education sector, in addition to creating various empowerment programmes for the youths.
 
To ensure that the returnees are fully reintegrated and kept busy, the state government, in collaboration with the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), opened a pineapple factory operated by a business cooperative, involving returnees and unemployed youths, and the private sector as part of the IOM’s integrated approach to sustainable reintegration. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .