Governor Nyesom Wike knows the value of sports to the socio-economic development of society, and he is applying it appropriately with the right key for the benefits of the people, the Rivers State Commissioner for Sports, Boma Iyaye has said. Speaking shortly after inspecting ongoing rehabilitation and regressing work at the main and practice pitches of the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium and renovation work at Rivers United Football Club Camp in Port Harcourt, Iyaye disclosed that the state’s owned football clubs, Rivers United and Rivers Angels will use the Adokiye Amiesimaka Stadium, Igwuruta-Ali, as a venue for their home matches in the 2020/2021 football season. Recall that the Yakubu Gowon Stadium, which had previously hosted both teams, is currently being used as an isolation centre for COVID-19 patients. Accompanied by the Ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Sir Honour Sirawoo, the commissioner also inspected dressing room facilities and other remedial works around the sports complex to ensure they were being done according to specifications. He stressed that the rehabilitation of the football pitches in the stadium was aimed at ensuring that both teams were given a conducive environment for optimal performance in local and continental matches. According to him, “I am impressed with the rate at which the rehabilitation is going on. The contractor has assured us that he will deliver on schedule and of good quality; with what we have seen so far, he will meet the deadline.” The rehabilitation of the pitches will see the contractor installing about 120 sprinklers in addition to the provision of several boreholes, pumping stations, and generators to guarantee regular maintenance of the football field. At the Rivers United Camp, he tasked the contractor to expedite action on the renovation work, while insisting that all materials to be used must be of the best quality in order to make the players comfortable. He thanked Governor Wike for the seriousness he attaches to issues surrounding sports; the reason he said, has made the state host several local, national and international competitions. “We must give kudos to Governor Nyesom Wike, he doesn’t joke with sports-related issues and you can all see the result. We have some of the best sporting facilities and you can see that we have hosted a lot of events,” he stressed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .