Nigerians to follow NPFL through online, other media channels The quest to make the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) more viable got a huge boost yesterday when the League Management Company (LMC) signed a strategic and investment partnership with Redstrike Media Nigeria to commercialise the NPFL. The agreement has empowered the parties to create an NPFL Media and Marketing Company with Redstrike now the LMC/NPFL marketing rights owner. Under this agreement, NPFL Marketing will be streaming live matches every week of the season through its own platform ‘NPFL.tv,’ as well as distributing and broadcasting through other media channels. The agreement also empowers Redstrike to launch opportunities for companies and brands to sponsor the NPFL and to support the growth of the professional game in Nigeria. According to the LMC, “Nigerian football fans will be able to engage and enjoy NPFL.tv’s innovative and
ground-breaking NextGen 360° platform. “Redstrike will also be working with each NPFL participating club to build a dedicated club app to integrate with NPFL.tv and also enhance the revenue base of the clubs.” The LMC also revealed that the NPFL would re-start initially without crowds, adding, “however, Nigerian football fans will be able to follow all the action and so much more through NPFL.tv. “The NPFL marketing partnership will also involve the creation of an NPFL Development Fund that will be deployed towards improvement of stadia infrastructure and connectivity, academies and community outreach programmes.” Speaking on the deal, LMC Chairman, Shehu Dikko, described it as “exactly what Nigerian football needs.” He added: “Our partnership with Redstrike will enable the NPFL to follow its ambition of becoming Africa’s premier football league and to be recognised as one of the most important leagues globally. “The effect of this ground-breaking development for Nigerian football is that every Nigerian football fans will be able to follow their team and watch NPFL matches every week. “We also expect that the new broadcast arrangements will energise interest in the Nigerian football leagues.” Also speaking on the agreement, Chairman of Redstrike Media Nigeria and G2P Sports, Bola Adefehinti, stated: “Firstly, as a Nigerian football fan, I am proud that the NPFL/ Redstrike partnership enables us to deliver a ground-breaking platform that makes the NPFL accessible to all fans of Nigerian football, irrespective of their location. “I am particularly delighted about the positive impact that NPFL.tv will have on grassroots football in Nigeria, raising of the standards of the NPFL, improvements in the stadia/infrastructure and the potential for ‘exporting’ the NPFL brand across the African continent and beyond.” Mike Farnan, who is the Global CEO of the Redstrike Group of Companies, said the “partnership with the NPFL is 100 per cent in line with Redstrike’s mission of investing in emerging markets and rights with unfulfilled potentials. “It is a fantastic honour to be involved with Nigerian football and one I and my team will fully commit to. We will deliver commercial success to the NPFL.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .