 Kayode Fayemi  The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, yesterday, waded into the crisis rocking the Ekiti State chapter of the party by declaring that the indefinite suspension slammed on Governor Kayode Fayemi by a faction of the party as well as an earlier suspension of some other party members in the state were nullities. The party said the national secretariat was yet to receive communication from the state chapter on the purported “suspensions.”In a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, APC said: “We strongly advise all members to adhere to our constitution. Fayemi remains the leader of the party in Ekiti State. “In line with the mandate of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee and the President’s admonition to party members to ensure and support ongoing amicable and rancour-free settlement of internal party disputes, we call on our esteemed party members and leaders in Ekiti State to be duly guided. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Paul Omotosho-chaired APC Ekiti State Working Committee is the authentic, valid and duly recognised executive, as no factions or divisions exist in the state chapter.” Earlier yesterday, in a move that signaled the deepening of the crisis, a faction of the party led by Senator Anthony Adeniyi announced the suspension of Fayemi for alleged anti-party activities. But the governor, in a swift reaction, described his suspension by the faction as a joke taken too far. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, Fayemi said those who purportedly suspended him were unknown to Ekiti APC. The party had last Thursday suspended 11 of its leaders in the state, including a presidential aide, Senator Babafemi Ojudu, for alleged disobedience to the order by the party’s leadership that members should withdraw all court cases against the party. Adeniyi’s factional executive, on their part, accused Fayemi of violating the provision of the party’s constitution hence his suspension. They alleged that the governor worked against the interest of the APC in the just concluded governorship election in Edo State by supporting the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Governor Godwin Obaseki. According to the faction, Fayemi hosted former Minister of Aviation and chieftain of the PDP, Mr Femi Fani-Kayode in Ekiti for five days before the Edo poll, “where they perfected the coup against our party in Edo State.” The faction alleged that Fayemi has polarised the party in the state, adding that they were out to salvage it from destruction.
Those who signed the communiqué announcing the governor’s suspension included Senator Ojudu, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, Bimbo Daramola, Robinson Ajiboye, Oyetunde Ojo, Adewale Omirin and Femi Adeleye. The communiqué read in part: “That Dr. Kayode Fayemi, the Executive Governor of Ekiti State is hereby suspended from the party in view of his numerous anti-party activities, especially his role in the recently concluded governorship election in Edo State, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 21 (A) (ii) of the APC Constitution. “For five days prior to the Edo elections, Fayemi hosted PDP bigwig, Mr. Femi Fani- Kayode, in the Government House. It was here they perfected the coup against our party in Edo State. This is the same Fani-Kayode who daily abuses President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the APC as a party as well a vital section of our country. We have evidence of that meeting. “Fani-Kayode specifically said he has gone on his tour as part of efforts between him and Fayemi to build a cross-party alliance and few hours after leaving Ekiti, he fired a shot at Asiwaju Tinubu.” The faction also said that the executives, led by Paul Omotosho, should stop parading themselves as the party’s executives, describing them as illegal. “The Paul Omotosho-led faction of APC Executive in the state is hereby declared illegal and suspended from the party for failure to emerge in accordance with the constitution of the party,” they added. But Oyebode said the faction had no power to announce a ‘dubious suspension’ of party members. He said: “While one would have dismissed their claims as another failed attempt to polarise the party in the state, it is also important to put it on record that the action of the group smacks of criminal impersonation as none of those who signed the purported suspension letter were executive members of the party at ward, local government or state level. “The action is but a joke taken too far as they never had such power they want to arrogate to themselves while they were members of the party, much less now that they have been suspended. “Governor Fayemi, however, remains unperturbed by these antics of the suspended members. Well meaning members of the public as well as members of APC are urged to disregard the news of the purported suspension as it only exists in the imagination of members of the group. Fayemi remains the indisputable leader of the APC in Ekiti State.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .