Theophilus Afelokhai is a serial winner in the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). Afelokhai, who won several league and cup titles with Kano Pillars, was in Enyimba’s victory run in the local scene for more than five seasons before switching over to Rivers United at the end of the 2019/2020 season. Now firmly entrenched in Port Harcourt, the goalkeeper is excited that the NPFL will soon be back to action, following the announcement by the Federal Government for the resumption of football and other team sports across the country. Speaking to The Guardian at the weekend, Afelokhai said the wait for the season was too long, adding that since the leagues of other countries across the world had begun, the leagues in the country should also start. “I am happy to hear that our league will soon resume. It is a good thing they have decided to call us back from the break because we have been waiting for this to happen. But thank God that they have called it off now, It is good news and I am excited about it,” he said. Afelokhai said it was no more a rumour that he has left Enyimba for a new challenge, adding, “I signed for Rivers United to achieve many good things next season after they explained their ambition of winning trophies. “Enyimba as a club have created a lot of records, and they will still create more. It was a team I really enjoyed in my five seasons stay with them. Moving to Rivers United means I had plans for myself because I always achieve at any club I signed for,” he said. Afelokhai explained that he did not leave Enyimba because of money, adding, “I signed for Rivers United because I wanted to achieve bigger things, as part of my dreams. “I felt I needed to move on with my career for other challenges after paying my dues. I wanted to face a new life and give others behind me the opportunity to also showcase their talents. “What makes Ronaldo great is because anywhere he goes to, he proves himself. When I was at Kano Pillars, I proved myself; at Enyimba, I did likewise before Nigerians and the rest of the world. And I will go to Rivers United to do same thing. Enyimba is a club I love so much and I will continue to pray for them to achieve success.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .