With tears streaming down her cheeks, Mrs. Doose Akase Akam, who recently got married to the late Donard Akase Akam, in Takum Local Government Council of Taraba State, could not fathom why militias would cut short her happiness, by prematurely sending her husband to the grave. Narrating her ordeals to The Guardian, yesterday, she recalled how her husband was gruesomely murdered by militias along Maraba village of Donga council, while on a journey to visit his father in nearby Bali council. Doose, who said she and her late husband boarded a vehicle from Takum Motor Park that fateful day to Meihula village in Bali council, said: “Little did I know that that day would be the last I would ever travelled with him to see his father. We were eight commuters in the vehicle. My late husband, my stepdaughter and I were the only three Tiv passengers. As we got to a Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO) checkpoint in Maraba, we were stopped by the officers. “Suddenly, some young men with knives and other light weapons approached our vehicle and started threatening the driver, telling him to drop any Tiv person inside the vehicle. They dragged my husband and me out of the vehicle. “They descended on my husband. The driver was a Hausa man from Takum. He quickly alerted the people within, and some people came and rescued me. I was forced back into the vehicle, but by then, the militias had taken my husband away.” She said the driver hurriedly took them from the scene, and that was when she realised that her husband was not rescued. Calling on government and security operatives to track down her husband’s killers, she said: “If government and security agents can fish out my husband’s killers, I will be relieved of the pains that I am going through. Aside this, making them to face justice will go a long way in serving as deterrent to those with similar tendencies.”
  
The state police command’s Public Relations Officer, David Misal, said he received a report from the Division Police Officer (DPO) of Maraba area in connection to the event. He said investigation has commenced into the matter. “For now, nobody has been arrested in connection with the crime,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .