Nancy Isime | Image: Instagram/nancyisimeofficial From ancient times, leather has been one essential fashion material that features in almost every era of design. Leather is known for versatility, comfort and durability. Leather is one classic and versatile clothing that would never go out of fashion. Here is how to style a leather outfit like a pro without making a fashion disaster: The leather jacket Sharon Ooja | Image: Instagram/sharonooja This is one fashion trend that would never go out of fashion. It’s one classic and versatile item of clothing that has been in trend since the beginning of time. The leather jacket says some bold statements about your choice of style. It can be styled with a pair of turtleneck, a tee-shirt, or even a button-up shirt. Leather skirt Image: Instagram/stylehubdaily A leather skirt varies from pencil, circle and pleated, it can also be high waist or low waist. Choose the leather skirt that suits your personality and the occasion to which it will be worn. Which means selecting the right length and design. You can also experiment with colours but choose the one that works for you. It can be paired with a loose-fitting top, a form-fitting top, a crop top, a denim jacket. It all balls down to your personality. Leather Dress Mercy Eke | Image: Instagram/official_mercyeke With a leather dress, you can either keep things simple, classy or sophisticated. It all depends on your personality. A leather dress is not an everyday attire, it for those special occasions where you need to project your chic style. Leather Pant Image: Instagram/stylehubdaily Leather pants, just like the jacket, have always been and will always be a fashion item that never goes out of style. This is just one perfect addition to your style.
It can also be worn to the office if styled properly. The leather pant can be styled with a white tee-shirt, a denim shirt, a vintage tee, a white button-up and you can also double up with a pair of leather jackets. Toke Makinwa: Image: Instagram/tokemakinwa Rihanna in black leather at the 2019 BET Awards | Image: Splash News Image: Instagram: stylehubdaily Ebube Nwagbo | Image: Instagram/poshesteb