Chico | Image: Tom Maddick/SWNS A parrot became an internet sensation after it rendered a pitch-perfect cover of Beyonce’s “If I Were A Boy”. Chico, a nine-year-old yellow-crowned amazon parrot, at Lincolnshire Wildlife Park in Boston, England has regularly broken into song since arriving at the attraction 18 months ago. Footage of Chico singing an incredibly accurate rendition of Beyonce’s If I Were A Boy went viral after it was uploaded to social media last week.  Chico hit all the right notes as he sang the opening lines to the 2008 hit by the 38-year-old US megastar while visitors chuckled in the background. The talented bird can also mimic other pop tracks including “Poker Face” by Lady Gaga, “Firework” by Katy Perry and “You Drive Me Crazy” by Gnarls Barkley. Lincolnshire Wildlife Park CEO Steve Nichols said: “After more than 25 years working with these amazing birds, they still never cease to amaze me. Who’d have ever thought that a parrot would cause social distancing problems due to being so popular.” A regular visitor to the park, Graham Gardner, 54, from Boston, said Chico had proved a star attraction at the park since he arrived. “People can’t get enough of him, there’s always a line of people waiting to see him – it’s like he’s an actual pop star at times. He’ll just break into song randomly and it leaves people in hysterics. He’s actually got a very good voice. Maybe Simon Cowell might get in touch, you never know.” Ellie Roby, commenting on the parks Facebook page, said: “Oh wow I love this.” Sophie Taylor said: “Please, we need to see and hear more from Chico!!!” Linda Parker posted: “I’m in love with him saw him yesterday He told me he was a good boy then started singing I stood there in amazement.” The Yellow Crowned Amazon is able to repeat human speech in a clear voice and can live often up to an astonishing 100 years old. They are native to tropical South America, Panama and Trinidad and Tobago where they feast on a diet of fruits, nuts, seeds and berries.