LASU The Senate of Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, said that only final year students at the undergraduate level such as 400, 500 and 600 levels were permitted to resume academic activities on Sept. 14. Mr Ademola Adekoya, the institution’s Head of Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations, made the disclosure in a statement on Friday in Lagos.
Adekoya said that their lecture hours would be from 9 a.m to 3 p.m daily (Monday to Friday). “Postgraduate students such as Masters and PhD are also to resume on Sept. 14 but their lectures will strictly hold on weekends only.
“The decision of the university senate to commence normal academic activities was in compliance with the directive of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and Visitor to the University. “Sanwo-Olu said that all tertiary institutions in the state can re-open from Monday, Sept. 14. “We know fully well that our country and indeed the entire globe is yet to overcome or produce a vaccine for COVID-19,” he said. Adekoya said that they were taking precautionary measures in line with the protocols of COVID-19, to ensure the safety of our returning staff, students and the entire university community. He said that the university had decided that the gradual re-opening of the University would be guided by the following rules and regulations “200 to 500 level (all levels other than 100 level and final year) students will commence academic activities on Nov. 9, while lectures for newly admitted students (100 levels) will commence on Jan. 11, 2021. “Sandwich Degree Programme, Part-Time in Epe Campus and Diploma students will commence lectures on Nov. 13 and their lectures will hold only on weekends,” Adekoya said.
According to the statement, conditions for accessing the university campuses include staffers and students must wear face masks, screening and checking of entrants at all entrances. “Others include; staff and students must wear their Identity cards to be allowed access into the University and everybody must come with their bottles of hand sanitizer.
“Staff, students and the entire university community are enjoined to abide by the above-listed regulations put together to ensure a healthy community devoid of COVID-19 virus. “Security personnel will also be on continuous surveillance, to identify violators of laid down rules and regulations,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .