An international oraganisation, Lawyers Without Borders  France, has secured three court judgments in favour of three victims of torture in Imo and Enugu states. The judgments followed fundamental rights applications brought by the body, also known as Avocats Sans Frontières France, on the platform of its “Promoting the United Nations Convention Against Torture” (ProCAT) project in Nigeria. ProCAT,  which promotes the ideals of the United Nations Convention Against Torture of which Nigeria is a signatory,  is operational in Enugu, Edo, Imo, Kaduna and Lagos states. It is supported by the United Nations Voluntary Funds for Victims of Torture. Confirming this development yesterday,  ASF France Head of Office Nigeria, Angela Uwandu, said the judgments were on behalf of Oguchi Kelechi Ihejirika, Elvis Davis and Jude Agha  in July. According to her, in Oguchi Kelechi Ihejirika v COP Imo State, a High Court in Imo State ordered declaratory reliefs for the torture meted out to  the victim. Uwandu noted that monetary reliefs in the sum of N2m was also granted as compensation for the unlawful, illegal and unconstitutional violations of the victim’s rights as enshrined in Sections 34 & 35 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). Costs in the sum of N20, 000 was also awarded in favour of the victim. Also, in Enugu State, she stressed that  a High Court granted freedom to Elvis Davis on  July 28. She said:”The  court acknowledged that the detention of Mr Davis without trial from 2016 to 2020 is  unconstitutional and violates his fundamental human rights to personal liberty and fair hearing as enshrined in the 1999 Nigerian Constitution and Article 6 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights. “He was consequently released from custody on July 29. “In the third case handled by ProCAT, a High Court in Enugu State on July 27 ordered the release of Mr Jude Agha, citing Order IV of the Fundamental Rights (Enforcement Procedure) Rules 2009.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .