Offset and Cardi B | Photo – NME Cardi B has had enough of her rapper husband Offset as the “WAP” rapper has filed for divorce after three years of marriage. Cardi B (née Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar), 27, on Tuesday filed for divorce at an Atlanta courthouse, reportedly after finding out that Offset, 28, had been unfaithful yet again, TMZ reports. The online news outlet added that “the filing shows it’s a contested divorce.” According to the court documents obtained by TMZ, Cardi B is seeking primary physical custody as well as legal custody of their 2-year-old daughter, Kulture. She also wants Offset to pay child support. TMZ also revealed that the couple are currently separated, adding that, “there’s no hope of working things out.” The pairs’ relationship has been rocked by accusations of Offset’s infidelity from the start. Cardi B and Offset became engaged on October 27, 2017 after Offset famously proposed to her at the Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia although it was later revealed that they had secretly married a month earlier privately in their bedroom. Three months after the secret wedding, Offset was at the centre of a sex tape cheating scandal after rumours of a video and alleged liaison with another woman surfaced. The “Bodak Yellow” rapper decided to stay with Offset despite the scandal. And she defended her decision: Cardi B and Offset | Photo – PopSugar “Well if people are talking about it and keep asking me how i feel about the situation why not let them know? Right or wrong? No it’s not right for a n— to cheat… But what you want me to do? Go f— me another n—? start all over again and get cheated on again? This s— happens to everyone and i be too You too… People handle they relationship different soo,” she wrote in a comment to a fan. In a February 2018 interview with Cosmopolitan, Cardi opened up about the situation and why she decided to stay. “I know I look good, I know I’m rich, I know I’m talented. I know I could get any man I want — any basketball player, football player,” she said. “But I want to work out my s— with my man, and I don’t got to explain why.” “I’m not your property. This is my life … I’m going to take my time, and I’m going to decide on my decision,” she added. “It’s not right, what he f—ing did — but people don’t know what I did, ’cause I ain’t no angel.” However, in December 2018 she announced on Instagram that she and Offset had broken up, though the pair later reunited.