Parents have always managed to set geographical boundaries – where their children could go and where they could not – back in time. Nowadays there is another opportunity to monitor the child’s whereabouts – to track the location of them using special software. Yet, according to Kaspersky’s (https://africa.Kaspersky.com) special survey for parents, not many parents in Nigeria realise this.  According to the “Responsible Digital Parenting” survey*, 79% of Nigerian parents do not track the location of their child. The reasons for this vary: 54% have never thought of tracking the location, while 28% do not know how to do it. There is an option to have the software, which lets parents locate their children on a map and set a safe area for them to stay in, installed on their children’s devices. However, 38% of parents in Nigeria claim they do not have it installed on any of their devices.  “Modern times offer a wide range of tools which can help in preventing accidents in real or digital life. It is crucial to know how to use them, what their benefits are, and, actually, use them. Tracking your child’s location can definitely save you a lot of trouble – its advantages lie also in the fact that it allows to control not only digital, but also real life of the child,” commented Andrey Sidenko, Head of Child Safety at Kaspersky Network.  To secure and protect your child both in digital and in real life, Kaspersky strongly recommends following this advice: Reference: * The “Responsible Digital Parenting” survey was implemented in conjunction with Toluna research agency in the end of 2019 – beginning of 2020. 5000 respondents from META region and Baltic states participated in the survey. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Kaspersky. Media Contact:
Nicole Allman
INK&Co.
Cell: +27 83 251 2769
nicole@inkandco.co.za Follow us on:
Facebook: www.facebook.com/Kaspersky
Twitter: https://twitter.com/Kaspersky
YouTube: www.youtube.com/user/Kaspersky
Instagram: www.instagram.com/kasperskylab
Website: www.Kaspersky.co.za About Kaspersky:
Kaspersky (https://africa.Kaspersky.com) is a global cybersecurity company founded in 1997. Kaspersky’s deep threat intelligence and security expertise is constantly transforming into innovative security solutions and services to protect businesses, critical infrastructure, governments and consumers around the globe. The company’s comprehensive security portfolio includes leading endpoint protection and a number of specialized security solutions and services to fight sophisticated and evolving digital threats. Over 400 million users are protected by Kaspersky technologies and we help 250,000 corporate clients protect what matters most to them. Learn more at https://africa.Kaspersky.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .