• Women endorse Obaseki
• Ize-Iyamu suspends campaign to honour accident victims Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has frowned on the allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that its members and supporters were attacked by APC faithful in Ihevbe, Jattu and Ekpedo, describing it as blackmail. It, however, hailed its campaign in Edo North Senatorial District, which it declared would fetch it a thunderous victory on September 19, 2020. Edo PDP had alleged rampant gun attacks on its members and supporters, while it preached peace and non-violence during campaigns. At a press conference yesterday, the Vice Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee of APC National Campaign Council for the 2020 Gubernatorial Election in Edo, Patrick Obahiagbon, said its Edo North campaigns showed who truly owned the land. PDP spokesman, Chris Nehikhare, had alleged: “On Sunday, August 30, 2020, armed men invaded the home of Secretary to Estako East Council, Paul Aronokhale. They beat the gateman mercilessly and rained bullets on the building and cars parked in the compound. This is the second time in a month that there has been an attempt on the life of the SLG by the same hoodlums suspected to be APC thugs.” HOWEVER, Concerned Indigenes of Edo State and in the Diaspora has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to support good governance in Edo through peaceful election. While addressing journalists in Benin City, the President/Founder, Israel Ade’Dunia, said the call became necessary due to orchestrated violence by people who are hell-bent on enthroning godfatherism in the state. VARIOUS women groups in Edo yesterday endorsed Governor Godwin Obaseki at PDP Women Wing Campaign Office, where wife of the governor, Mrs. Betsy Obaseki, educated them on how to prevent void vote. Mrs. Obaseki urged the women to resist the temptation of giving out their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) to anyone and to report any request for it to the authorities. The women, in their various groups, visited the PDP Women Wing Campaign Office in Benin City to pledge their support for Obaseki. IN the meantime, the APC candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has called off his rally at Usen, following a road crash. A trailer had run into the APC campaign entourage before Oluku junction in Benin City, claiming lives of top party chieftains. Chairman of the APC Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, stated that the party was suspending the event to honour the dead. On behalf of Ize-Iyamu and APC, Mayaki condoled with the families of the victims, saying they were not alone in their grief.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .