 Lagos national stadium. Photo: WIKIPEDIA  As at last week, the exercise within the complex was 75 per cent completed, leaving just 25 per cent of the job. The action, which is aimed at returning the stadium to its original design, began two weeks ago and is expected to last for eight weeks. The co-chairman of the Ministerial Committee on ‘Restoration’ of the Lagos National Stadium, former Technical Director of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Retired Navy Commodore Omatseye Nesiama, said the exercise returned on Thursday after the expiration of the time given to shop owners to move out from the complex. “We decided to halt the demolition exercise a few days ago to allow shop owners to move out their property. We are back for the final phrase, and thereafter, we will begin cleaning off the rubbles, Nesiama told The Guardian during an on-the-spot assessment. Nesiama stated that the demolition was not to witch-hunt anybody. “It is not targeted at anybody, rather, we are out to make the National Stadium, Lagos a befitting place, and at the end of the day, every Nigerian will be happy. It was a huge task, but gradually, we are getting the job done. “As you can see, the Ojez and Old School bars are already gone. All the illegal structures underneath the ramps and around the swimming pool are already pulled down. The illegal structures we are removing right now are those around the car park and the fence adjoining the entrance gate,” Nesiama said. He thanked shop owners for their understanding, and for heeding to their advice, assuring that their interest would be factored into ‘the future scheme’ of things. When The Guardian visited the stadium complex yesterday, it was observed that all the mini shops constructed by some individuals underneath the entrance gate leading to the main bowl of the National Stadium had been pulled down. Also removed were the drinking spot beside the basketball hall, restaurants around the table tennis hall, as well as the eating joint located close to the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). Some shop owners were seen moving out of their belongings yesterday. Several security personnel, including policemen and members of the Civil Defence corps, were stationed around the stadium complex yesterday to prevent break down of law and order. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .