Police nab gang of killer kidnappers in Ogun Gunmen suspected to be bandits, on Monday, shot and killed one Alhaji Muntari Mai Yadi and kidnapped his son, Usman, at Yankara town in the Faskari Local Government Area of Katsina State.
 
A son of the deceased, Younusa Mukhar Yankara, in a Facebook post, confirmed the incident, which he said occurred about 11:00p.m. He wrote: “It has happened. Gunmen have killed my father, Alhaji Muntari Mai Yadi, and they have kidnapped my brother Usman. From God we are and to Him we shall return. The soldiers brought to Faskari are not useful. God is enough for us to forgive this government. May God forgive my father.”
 
The victim was laid to rest on Tuesday according to Islamic rites at his residence. This came just as a 50-year-old man identified as Ashiru Aliyu was killed by gunmen in the early hours of Monday at Daulai Village, Safana Local Government Area of Katsina State. It was gathered that many women were also abducted by the gunmen, who also rustled some domestic animals and looted foodstuff during the attack.  MEANWHILE, operatives of the Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan, Lagos, have arrested three different deadly syndicates that have been allegedly kidnapping and killing their victims in the South West zone.
 
The kidnappers, it was said, recently abducted a serving female police inspector and an operative of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Ogun State and collected ransom before setting them free. The gang also shot dead a cattle dealer and a driver.
 
The Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone 2, comprising Lagos and Ogun States, AIG Ahmed Iliyasu, who paraded the suspects, said: “When I received information on the marauders, I directed my monitoring/tactical unit to ensure they track down the heinous perpetrators, of which six of them who operated in three different groups, were nabbed.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .