Few days ago, a video surfaced on social media where a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Ondo State and a senior lawyer was talking to some group of persons where he issued threats of giving the Ondo State electorates the Yahaya Bello and Militant treatments. The said the video was confirmed by Hon. D. Isaac Kemekeke himself in his response to a genuine concern raised by Her eminence, Moyinoluwa Olubunmi Falowo, the Regent of Ibulesoro, Akure, Ondo State in an open letter to the learned senior lawyer who went ahead to affirm his militant treatment prescription but was silent on the Yahaya Bello’s treatment. For those who haven’t watched the video or those non-Yoruba speaking persons who may have seen the video, Hon. Isaac Kekemeke mentioned ‘Idajo’ (appellation/nickname for Ondo State Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers, Bayo Igbira, and Amoda. My interactions with members of the public on the relevance of the above-mentioned persons revealed they are non-state actors and they are politicians who have tendencies to disrupt and cause mayhem during electioneering campaigns and the election proper. He went ahead to mention ‘Federal might’ (a reference to the use of the various security apparatus of the Federal Government to intimidate the electorates of Ondo State during the election). He stated that Eyitayo Jegede, SAN the candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has been ranting that his posters have been defaced and stated that he hasn’t seen anything. He went further to state that he is a Militant and that none of the candidates in the upcoming election can withstand and or talk to Yahaya Bello, the Governor of Kogi State whose election was characterised by violence and death of many persons in November 2019. The long and short of the content of the video is to instill fear in the hearts and minds of the indigenes and electorates in Ondo State as they approach the Gubernatorial election scheduled for 10th October 2020 through the use of non-state actors to foment trouble, destabilize and or intimidate the electorates during the elections.       
 
I believe that a lawyer like myself ought not to make inciting comments at all how much more in public. Furthermore, a lawyer is under obligation amongst other things; ‘to uphold and observe the rule of law, promote and foster the cause of justice, maintain a high standard of professional conduct, and shall not engage in any conduct which is unbecoming of a legal practitioner.’ 
 
The above is the exact words of Rule 1 of the Rules of Professional Conduct for Legal Practitioners which rules are made pursuant to the Legal Practitioners Act by the Attorney General of the Federation and Chairman of the General Council of the Bar.  Fast forward to 2002 while doing my Court and Chambers attachments at the High Court of Ondo State in Akure (the Court and Chambers attachments being prerequisite for the award of the Bachelor of Laws (BL) Certificate by the Nigerian Law School) where he had his office at Toyin Bookshop. I was opportune to visit his law firm before I concluded the said Court and Chambers attachment.
 
All my respect and regards for Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke, over the years, were deflated and lost the day I watched the video where he threatened the entire people of Ondo State with the Yahaya Bello’s treatment and Militant attack.
 
It may be that Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke has lost sight of the circumstances surrounding the General Elections in 2015 where an incumbent President with the enormous powers at his disposal was defeated in the first of its kind in Nigeria’s history as a nation. The then President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan even congratulated the winner before the final results were declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) thereby laying a foundation for the country to accept defeat where necessary and avoid overheating the polity. It also earned the former President accolades around the world. Again, in 2019, Governor Seyi Makinde defeated an incumbent party in Oyo State to emerge as the Governor of the State. Other states in the country where the incumbent Governors were defeated are Adamawa and Bauchi States and the people in the said states were not given Yahaya Bello or Militant treatments. 
 
The lessons in the above instances are that incumbency without more is nothing. What helps the incumbents is the opportunity to affect the lives of the people when in power. Democracy is good and efficient as it makes the election a recurrent that no matter how powerful a Governor, a President or a Legislator is a day will come at least once in 4 years when he or she will go before the electorates to seek for their votes and no power on earth, not even the power of the guns, artilleries, and mortals could prevent the electorate from exercising their right to choose who they want.
 
If Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke’s party has not done what it ought to do in the last 42 months or he has lost record of what the party has done I will like to encourage him to go back to the drawing board and take an inventory of what its party has done and started mentioning them one after the other so the people who sit on judgment on election day may consider his political party or reject it. However, elections are not won on the threat of violence or militancy and I believe the lesson of the 2007 Ondo State General Election which PDP lost to the LP will serve as a lesson here and I am sure Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke knows what I am saying because he was a senior member of late Dr. Olusegun Kokumo Agagu’s administration which the Court of Appeal sacked on the 24th of February, 2009 as a result of the challenge by the Labour Party led by Dr. Olusegun Rahman Mimiko.      
 
The question that will agitate the minds of all the indigenes of Ondo State and their friends across the country is: What will be the gain of our leader if his militants and militiamen kill the indigenes of Ondo State?  Whether in the interim or in the long run there will be no gain learned senior.   History is not nice to anyone who intimidates others with powers that God gave to them. Even Paul, the Apostle, regretted his actions in the death of Apostle Stephen. In his epistle to the people of Ephesus in Ephesians 2: 8-9, ‘For by grace are ye saved through faith, and not of yourselves, It is the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast’.  I call on Civil Society Groups in Ondo State and Nigerian at large to stand up to Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke and his goons who are planning violence on the people of Ondo State in the October 2020 Gubernatorial election to retrace their steps and embrace peace.
 
I call on all our traditional rulers: Obas and Chiefs in Ondo State and Nigerian at large to call Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke to order to embrace peace and stop the threat of violence on the people of Ondo State.
 
I call on our religious leaders in Ondo State and Nigerian at large to please beg Hon. D. Isaac Kekemeke not to foment violence with his Militant and militias. I call on the Body of Benchers, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and the Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee (LPDC) to immediately commence disciplinary action against Hon. Isaac Kekemeke serves as deterrence to others. I call on the Executive Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Odunayo Akeredolu, a legal luminary and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) to immediately intervene and call Hon. Isaac Kekemeke to order. If after 3 years and six months in office as Governor of the State members of your party do not have any tangible things to relate with to convince their followers to support their political party, it does speak volume either they are inept or they are out to cause embarrassment to the ruling government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .