Operatives of Kano Police Command on Wednesday said it intercepted 2,000 cartoons of Dangote branded Indomine noodles in Kano. The lorry packed noodles worth over N4 million, donated by CA-COVID-19 as palliative for Benue state was diverted to Kano. Besides, the command arrested a Sudanis with 1,054 unregistered SIM cards belonging to various local telecom companies. Briefing journalists on Wednesday at the Bompai Police Headquarters, Commissioner of Police in Kano, Abu Sani disclosed that 2,000 out of 3,850 cartons of the noodles were recovered from a trader in Singer market in Kano after a piece of intelligent information. CP Sani told journalists that the suspect had confessed to have purchased the noodles from those that diverted the items from Benue to Kano. However, the CP did not disclose the whereabouts of those behind the diversion of the food items. But the suspect, one Yusuf Abdullah, 30 years old, told journalists that he bought the items from the beneficiaries of the palliatives. The suspect who confessed he was aware the items were being diverted said that “many of the beneficiaries came to the market to voluntarily sell them. Some of them exchanged the noodles rice while some sold it to us.” In another development, the Police boss revealed that the command also recovered 13 stolen vehicles and 914 parcels of dried leaves suspected to be indian hemp in the last operation. Sani emphasized that men of the special Puff-Adder squad of the Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, also tracked down 259 suspects for various crimes committed within and outside the state. Weapons recovered from the suspects according to CP Sani are 10 rifles including one AK-47, two English pistols, four locally made guns, and 79 live ammunition and cartridges. “With sustained Puff-Adder operations, community policing engagements and other crime-fighting strategies, the command has with vigorous vigour execute it’s policing mandate. ” We have arrested 45 suspected armed robbers and eight Kidnappers. Eight drug dealers, 28 fraudsters suspects were also Intercepted”, Sani noted. However, the Sudanis suspect who identified himself as Ghassan Ali Dinar said he personally brought the SIM card to the police to report before before he was detained to produce the owner of the items.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .