The family of the late business mogul and presumed winner of June 12, 1993, presidential election, Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola, has pleaded with the public, especially the media, to be wary and cautious of any publication regarding  Abiola’s family and “not to dishonour and disrespect the memory of the late sage.” The family said that serious efforts had been put in place to secure the release of the two sons, Kasim and Aliyu, who were detained at the Special Anti-Robbery Squad in Ikeja. The duo was detained following a complaint by their step-mother, Mrs. Adebisi Abiola, after the robbery incident at their residence in Ikeja on September 2, 2020. In a statement yesterday, the family lawyer, Debo Adeleke, also denied the allegation that Adebisi was behind the ordeal of Kasim and Aliyu. He said: “As expected, she was so petrified, bemused and stupefied by the unfortunate armed robbery incident that she could not raise an alarm even after the robbers had escaped with their loots. She was eventually freed by other members of the family who had apparently called the police upon which she and her daughter and other members of the family were interviewed by the police, led by Lagos State Commissioner of Police in person of Mr. Hakeem Odumosu. “It is on record that while security agents were interviewing the family members, Kasim conducted himself in a very rude and suspicious manner and all efforts to make him act in a responsible manner failed. “These unguarded vituperations and violent conducts by Kasim infuriated the police and he was subsequently invited for further interrogation for demanding for the reason for the presence of policemen in his father’s house. His junior brother, Aliu, equally joined him in his tirade of abuse against the police. “The police subsequently arrested Kasim Abiola, Aliu Abiola and seven others for further questioning. “This unfortunate turn of event angered Mrs. Adebisi Abiola and other members of the family and they were thoroughly embarrassed. Although Kassim and Aliu Abiola have inalienable and constitutional rights for the enforcement of their rights and fight for freedom but before a third party could embark on such an exercise, such an action ought to have been brought to the notice and attention of other members of the family who were making frantic efforts to get them released on bail.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .