Group restates Benin monarch’s charge on peace, as Kwankwaso mulls support for Obaseki National leadership of the Labour Party (LP), at the weekend, charged President Muhammadu Buhari to use the Edo State governorship election as a launchpad to his administration’s electoral reform agenda. National Secretary of the party, Julius Abure, made the call at a media briefing in Benin City, stressing that President Buhari should ensure that the governorship election was free, fair and credible. “There can never be democracy if the electoral processes are not free, fair and credible. If the election is free, fair and credible, Edo people will be the ultimate winners. The president would not lose anything, if the election is credible. “We, therefore, urge him to use the governorship election as a basis for his government’s electoral reform agenda,” he said. Abure, who noted that the country’s electoral process had been fraught with irregularities and fraud, added that the President would write his name in gold if he uses the Edo governorship he uses it to kick start the electoral reforms. However, the Benin Royal Family In North America has cautioned against the distortion and misrepresentation of Benin monarch, Oba Ewuare II’s peace message as the election draws nearer. The group cautioned politicians particularly those using social media platforms to cause disunity and advised perpetrators to desist from such divisive acts. The warning was contained in a statement issued by its President, Prince Christopher Eweka; the Enogie (Duke) of Evbuohuan and member of the Elders’ Council, Prince Felix Omorodion and Director of Public Relations, Prince Emmanuel Okunmwendia. It condemned the malicious act of some politicians and their agents who have doctored several versions of the video of the peace meeting hosted by Oba Ewuare II recently, to satisfy their selfish political interest and worsen the already tense political situation in the state. They said the monarch’s words were law and sacred because of the extraordinary wisdom and power with which God had endowed him. “No one should twist or distort the Oba’s message to satisfy his or her own selfish political interest at the expense of peace and tranquility in the state,” they warned. Also, Governor Godwin Obaseki and the former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, weekend  commissioned the Edo State Hajj Camp in Benin City, with a charge to Muslim faithful to vote massively for the PDP to ensure the reelection of Obaseki and his deputy, Philip Shaibu. Kwankwaso commended the governor for his performance across all sectors of the state, noting that his (Obaseki’s) achievements in the first term would earn him a reelection. “Let me also thank Edo people and Muslims for showing support for what has been achieved in terms of development.
“This is the time for all eligible voters to come out en masse and ensure that we vote for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP),” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .