 President Muhammadu Buhari (right) and ECOWAS Special Envoy on Mali crisis, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan during a visit to brief Buhari on latest developments in the West African nation at the State House, Abuja…yesterday.  Heads of State and Government of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), at the behest of their chairman, President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, might meet again to iron out the remaining grey areas in the Malian political situation. President Muhammadu Buhari gave the indication yesterday after being briefed yesterday in Abuja by the ECOWAS Special Envoy to the landlocked nation and former Nigerian leader, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. Mali had appointed an interim civilian president who is to restore constitutional order in 18 months. The condition was part of the demands by the West African leaders before sanctions imposed on the country could be lifted. However, according to Jonathan, the junta is yet to satisfy the sub-regional body’s request for a full civilian as vice president, and what his roles would be in government. The position is currently occupied by a serving military officer, who was one of the coup leaders. Buhari, thereafter, implored his predecessor to present a formal report to the Ghanaian leader “who will then write to us officially, and we then determine the next steps.” IN the meantime, the commission has opened a-two day national consultation workshop on its post-2020 vision, stating that the event was to outline expectations of Nigerians with regard to the formulation of the blueprint. Head of ECOWAS National Unit, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. J. U. Oyi, made the clarification yesterday in his address at the ceremony in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He said the outcome of the participatory meeting would be communicated to the ECOWAS Commission as Nigeria’s position. The event is being organised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, Budget, and National Planning in collaboration with the commission to collate views of stakeholders on the impact of the dream. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .