Says he is a day-dreamer, vows to defeat APC
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ondo State chapter, has countered the National Leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu, describing him as a “daydreamer.” In a statement by the state’s PDP Publicity Secretary, Kennedy Peretei, which was made available to journalists in Akure yesterday, the party kicked against Tinubu, whom it said underestimated the party ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship election. Peretei condemned Tinubu for saying “PDP is dead” during the commissioning of the Revenue House as part of the activities to mark Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s second term kick-off in Akure on Saturday. According to him: “This claim is laughable because it can only come out from the mouth of a day-dreamer. “The much hyped kick-off of the Akeredolu campaign was apparently rejected not only by Ondo people but even the forces of nature that brought about torrential rainfall. “Ironically, Tinubu and his hired crowd from Osun and Ekiti states symbolically took solace in umbrellas that dotted the entire campaign ground.” The PDP chieftain, who hinged the prospect of the major opposition party in the successes recorded in the general elections last year, said: “The PDP also won two out of the three senatorial seats in Ondo State. How can such a party by any stretch of imagination be said to be dead? “It is shameful that the only project Tinubu came to commission in three and half years is the Revenue House, a building that stands as a sign-post of multiple taxation of the Ondo State people. “The PDP will offer affordable education and healthcare delivery as against Aketi’s engineered astronomical tuition fees that have thrown many of the students in tertiary institutions out of school.” Peretei said that the ruling party would be defeated again in the forthcoming governorship election, saying: “By October 10, 2020, Tinubu will know which party is dead in Ondo State.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .