Abdulkareem Veteran Nigerian Hip/Hop artiste, Eedris Abdulkareem, has unveiled his upcoming sixth studio album, a 24-tracker titled Nothing But The Truth. The album is coming ten years after his last project dropped. To set the tone for the release of the work, the Jaga Jaga Master recently staged an album listening party in Lagos, with some of his colleagues and friends in attendance. The event was organised to give his fans and colleagues a first listen to his sixth album, a 24 tracker. Abdulkareem’s new project is another addition to Nigeria’s list of socio-political commentaries wearing the armour of music. It addresses front-burner issues like Corruption, ethnocentric killings, and terrorism. Abdulkareem featured fellow veterans Sound Sultan, Rugged Man, African China, Zlatan, Myke Pam and Olamide on the album. “Nothing But The Truth is vintage Eedris Abdulkareem and promises to set the records straight and right the lyrical wrongs in the Nigerian music industry as a collector’s item. It will be backed with classy videos from Frizzle & Brizzle Visuals. Fans should watch as conscious music makes a much-awaited rebound,” he talks about the inspiration behind the album. The last vocal song Eedris released was a 2018 single titled Letter To Obasanjo, where he claimed the ex-president was the ‘problem of Nigeria’ and has remained at the forefront of fighting societal ills through his music. Born Eedris Turayo Abdulkareem Ajenifuja, he performed with hip-hop band The Remedies from 1997 until they split in 2002. He continued as a solo artist and released the album P.A.S.S. (Pains And Stress = Success) in 2002. Later in the same year, he released an album titled Mr. Lecturer. Its title track spoke on students in Nigerian colleges and universities receiving higher grades in exchange for money and sex. In 2004, Abdulkareem released his third album Jaga Jaga, a Yoruba term for a shambles, declaiming corruption and suffering in Nigeria. He followed it up with three albums Letter to Mr. President (2005), King is Back (2007) and Unfinished Business (2010).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .