 Oshiomhole. Photo: GHGOSSIP  Motion For Extension
APC STAKEHOLDERS maintain that it would take another National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to vary the original timeframe given to the MMB committee to conduct the extraordinary national convention that would produce the party’s national officers.  Apprehensions
IT is on record that the Senate Chief Whip, Kalu, was the first person to fly the kite of a possible extension for the MMB committee. Being much of a gadfly, many party faithful expressed surprise and misgivings about Kalu’s expose, with some arguing that it was part of the North’s efforts to control the party structure while also occupying the presidency. The Senate Chief Whip had in a statement argued against the fire brigade approach to the MMB’s mandate, insisting that more time is needed for the committee to put things in order and hand over properly to new leadership.  “Holding the convention in December would also not give the desired results, because the National Assembly will soon go into budget presentation and defense sessions.”
 
Nonetheless, while APC stalwarts flayed the former Abia State governor for being unnecessarily too flippant by divulging the agenda, the leader of a Southwest socio-political body, Yoruba Ronu, Akin Malaolu, said the reality of Kalu’s suggestion was so scary and confirms growing apprehension that the party could no longer put its house in order.
 
But, Mr. Fouad Oki, a former Governorship Campaigns Director for Tinubu, Babatunde Fashola and Akinwunmi Ambode, and Chairman of Lagos APC, Chief Tunde Balogun, sided with the Senate Chief Whip, maintaining that the MMB committee actually needed some more time to complete its assignment.
 
According to Malaolu, “It appears as if APC is leading the country to nowhere, looking at the manner it is conducting its internal affairs.  Putting Fayemi On The Spot
SPECULATIONS that some Southwest political leaders are already putting up the machinery to clinch APC’s presidential ticket for 2023 recently sparked divergent reactions in the geopolitical zone.
 
While some argued that it is not too early to begin campaigns, others are of the opinion that 2023 is too far to start what they called “distractions to the government.
   
Some of the politicians being speculated for the office of the president include Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, APC National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu, Ekiti State Governor and Chairman of the Governors Forum, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, Minister of Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and Pastor Tunde Bakare.
 
But, in a move seen as a calculated attempt to remove himself from the spotlight, Governor Fayemi denied ever putting any structure together for such an ambition.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .