4 Signs Your Girlfriend Is Emotionally Disconnected From You Relationships are filled with ups and downs, however, there are times a partner might be done in the relationship while the other party still holds on. There are other situations where the other party starts to cheat. Below are some signs that show your girlfriend is no longer interested in a relationship: She Stops Caring
Women are wired to care about the smallest details about their men and relationships. She cares how many times you call and whether you make time for her. She gets angry with you when you forget those important dates in your relationship and will make a big fuss about it. So when your lady stops caring about the things she normally would. She does not care if you call or not, she does not care if you text or not, she does not care about your wellbeing, then you have a cause to worry. She Just Won’t Commit!
Most women want a man who is willing to commit to them for life. They will drop hints if not directly ask their boyfriend what his plans for their future are. So if your woman constantly evades the commitment discussion, it may be a sign she is not ready to commit to you and has other options to explore. You need to ask explicitly so you know what you are doing. No Interest Intimacy
In a relationship, the couple builds on intimacy by having sex. If there is no more interest or urge to have sex with you, it is obvious there are chances of tiredness or she is no longer interested in you. If a woman loves you, she looks forward to spending time with you and this includes sex. Increased Privacy
If your girlfriend who normally would not mind you going through her phones starts hiding things from you, then there is a problem. Perhaps, she is using the vibrate instead of the ring and even pressing the ignore option far more than she used to. Is she giggling about messages that she doesn’t share with you? Is she texting more than she ever did before? Is there an element of privacy she displays over her phone? Then she is probably in love with someone else and emotionally out of the relationship with you. Constantly endeavour to speak to your partner about your relationship, if you notice any change, let them know. At times, they might not know they have changed.