 Dare  The ministry also thanked President Buhari for also reopening the NYSC Orientation camps. The National Coordinator of the PTF on COVID-19, Dr. Sani Aliyu, had, on Thursday, announced the start of sporting activities without fans under the close supervision of the sports ministry and the National Centre for Disease Control. In a statement issued by the Permanent Secretary of the Sports Ministry, Mr. Gabriel Aduda, the minister said: “We commend President Muhammadu Buhari, the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for reopening football and team sports and the NYSC Orientation, which has been in the cooler since the outbreak of COVID-19. “We are happy that our athletes can now return to action and do what they know how best to do and our youth can return to camp.  The last few months have been very tough for our athletes as well as the Ministry. The ministry shall ensure full compliance with all necessary protocols and tests before approval is given for resumption or sporting activity or football matches. “Approval must be sought and given before any game is played, all protocols must be put in place and guidelines obeyed as directed by PTF and NCDC. “The ministry has set up a COVID-19 monitoring and approval team for every sports engagement and event,” it said, adding that all steps for the resumption of the Nigerian domestic league were ongoing. Aduda warned that the league would not resume until basic conditions are fulfilled. “Indeed, the steps to return our football league to prime position are ongoing. The domestic League will not commence until the regulations and controls in the aspect of financial and licensing control are put in place. The NFF must put clubs on notice and enforce these regulations and controls as stipulated, otherwise, the Nigerian professional and amateur leagues would not be approved for resumption,” the statement noted. It will be recalled, the sports minister had directed the NFF to communicate with the clubs the need to comply fully with financial controls and regulation as stipulated in the rule book before a date can be fixed for the resumption of the league. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .