Tyler Perry Shot 19 Episodes Of New Series “Bruh” In Four Days Image Charles Bergmann/BET/Tyler Vision, LLC Tyler Perry, ever the man of efficiency, has wrapped four days of shooting four different shows in quarantine, one right after the other. Sitcom “Bruh” was the shortest order, 19 episodes, and the shortest shoot, four days. The BET+ comedy, which started filming Sept. 3, finished the 7th of September according to The New York Post. Since July 9, when the Tyler Perry Studios in Atlanta opened its doors for the cast of “Sistas,” Perry successfully filmed 82 episodes of his BET series “Sisters” and “The Oval” and BET+’s “Ruthless” and “Bruh.” Perry filmed new seasons of his series amid the coronavirus pandemic using a quarantine bubble model, sequestering cast and crew on the lot for the duration of a shoot. Overall, there were 32 shoot days and 51 quarantine days total for the four series, with weeklong breaks between the production of “Sistas” and “The Oval” as well as “The Oval and Ruthless.” Perry and his crew stayed in continuous production after “Ruthless” to shoot “Bruh.” Perry’s quarantine bubble model involves check-in testing as cast and crew arrive at the studio, with everyone staying in their rooms until test results come back. There were four positive tests, out of 360 people during the check-in phase on “Sistas,” none of which involved cast, and a cast member of “Ruthless” tested positive during check-in. But the bubble held up; there were no positive cases in camp once cast and crews had checked in and production started. It is to be decided what Perry will film next at his studios. Coming up is a birthday break for the media mogul, whose birthday is Sept. 13, and accepting the Governor’s Award at the Primetime Emmy Awards Sept. 20. Perry, who writes all his shows and films, spent part of the early pandemic period in the spring writing, so he will have plenty of future TV shows, movies, and seasons of existing shows in the till. Forbes last week placed the Atlanta mogul on its cover and declared him a billionaire.