• ‘It’s distortion of Nigeria’s federalism’
Following its earlier condemnation by different groups and individuals, the Ijaw Nations Development Group (INDG) has condemned the reintroduction of the National Water Resources Bill in the National Assembly, vowing to resist it vehemently. The INDG described the bill as not only provocative, but also a complete distortion of Nigeria’s federalism, insisting that reintroduction of the bill was the height of insensitivity to the plight of ordinary Nigerians. Ijaw stakeholders, who stated this yesterday during a virtual meeting attended by over 100 participants, lamented that the Federal Government sent the bill to the National Assembly without engaging the states and peoples that are the direct stakeholders, but only acknowledged them as footnotes. Keynote speaker at the meeting, Anthony George-Ikoli (SAN), described the bill as a deleterious agenda. “Taking a critical look at the National Water Resources Bill 2020, currently in the legislature and our national consciousness, I am compelled to align myself with more speakers, who in recent times, have come to the conclusion that such a bill can only be the product of an undisclosed, deleterious agenda,” he said. He explained that true federalism usually serves to recognise the rights of the constituent units to ownership and protection of same, noting that by its vesting sections, the bill represented an egregious distortion of federalism. “The Federal Government has not only deprived the states of the minerals and mineral oil in the land within their territories, but it is also now plotting to take the only resource left for the states to administer for the benefit of their people through the National Water Resources Bill,” he added. He said the time was past when the Ijaw nation would sit aloof and watch, but it was time to set an agenda for its legislators at all levels. Another speaker and Niger Delta activist, Ann Kio-Briggs, said it was disheartening that the Federal Government was tampering with the rights of Ijaw people and the Niger Delta region. “Water represents live and belongs to my people, we live on and by the water. For the first time, the Ijaw have to wake up because they have taken our land, oil and air through pollution and now, they want to take our water. It is our responsibility to protect our rights,” she stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .