NTT Pro Cycling’s (https://NTTProCycling.com/) Domenico Pozzovivo has unfortunately been forced to abandon the Tour de France as a result of the elbow injury he sustained on the opening stage of the race in Nice.  The decision was taken by Team Manager Bjarne Riis after the completion of stage nine that finished in Laruns. This is a result of the crash that he had on the opening stage of the race which saw him collide with a spectator’s outstretched hand that was taking a photo of the race and saw over 20 riders go down. The Italian has fought exceptionally bravely to consistently finish our strongest rider on the climbing stages but the sheer pace of the race has steadily taken its toll. Bjarne Riis It’s really disappointing that Domenico has been forced to pull out of the race. We were very optimistic that he would be able to feature in the overall general classification but that opportunity was taken away from him on the first stage by the crash,” said Riis. I’ve seen how he’s been bravely suffering every day and we’ve now come to the conclusion that the best thing is for him to stop. We want him to return home, focus on recovering and start looking ahead to preparing himself for the Giro d’Italia. It’s been so encouraging to see how he prepared himself to be ready for the Tour de France after the way in which he recovered from his serious crash last year, so for his race to end in this way is very sad. Domenico Pozzovivo I didn’t want to leave the Tour without seeing if my body could recover during the course of the race but the pain every day has been incredible. Added to that the risk of crashing again and causing even greater harm is simply too great. I’m going to focus now on recovering as quickly as possible and then look towards my next goal which will be hopefully the Giro d’Italia. I’ve tried to give my absolute best and have had incredible support from my team here for which I want to thank everyone involved. I wish them all the very best for the rest of the race. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. Media Contact:
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (https://NTTProCycling.com/) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. 
 
Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles.
 
We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. 
 
We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. 
 
The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (https://Qhubeka.org/) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles.  People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (https://hello.global.NTT/) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future.
Visit us at our new website hello.global.NTT All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .