President Muhammadu Buhari (right) with President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, during a visit to the State House, Abuja… yesterday. • AU considers uniform currency, market for African nations
President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, received president of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina, imploring him to lend support to his administration’s quest to address the infrastructure deficit in Nigeria. Congratulating him on his re-election, Buhari reminded his visitor “nothing succeeds like success.” He lauded Adesina for his support for Africa in general, and Nigeria in particular, stressing that the infrastructure deficit the country had in roads, rail and power could not be overcome without support. “There can’t be sustainable development without infrastructure. Our efforts should be seen in the context of lack of resources, but do your best to support us. I wish you all the best in your final term,” the Nigerian leader appealed. The President went on: “I have told so many people why I backed you. “In 2015, at your first term, you were a minister with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government, and I was of the All Progressives Congress (APC). But you are a good Nigerian. So I recommended you the first time. You proved to be competent, you made us proud, and I recommended you the second time.” Responding, Adesina thanked Buhari and the people for their support. He stated: “Home is where dreams are born. Home is where nurturing is provided. It is where support is given for realisation of dreams. I am glad to belong here. “When I came in June, you received me, and I shared my successes and the difficulties facing me. You listened, and said you would stand by me. And you did. You not only stood behind me, but also beside me. No greater honour for a man than for his Commander-in-Chief to be his supporter-in-chief and defender-in-chief.” The AfDB chief said Nigeria gave him air “when I badly needed it in my lungs.” He promised to support the most populous black nation always both in his private and official capacities. Adesina was on September 1 sworn in for a fresh term of five years after securing 100 per cent votes from regional and non-regional shareholders last month. IN the meantime, the African Union – Economic, Social and Cultural Council (AU-ECOSOCC, Nigeria) is considering a common currency and market for the over 50 countries on the continent in line with its Agenda 2063 initiative. It decried mistreatment of Africans, vowing to “silence the guns” by year-end. Nigeria’s Representative at AU-ECOSOCC, Dr. Tunji John, made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja when the AU delegation conferred an award on Chairman/CEO of ONELINK International, Ambassador Nmaa Ahmed, to celebrate his appointment as Chairman, Advisory Board to Political Affairs Cluster Committee of the assembly. He said the continental body would ensure that policies, programmes and framework for development were implemented and domesticated across regions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .