Stage 12 of the Tour de France was won in impressive fashion by Marc Hirschi (SUN) as he soloed to the line in Sarran-Correze.  For NTT Pro Cycling (http://www.NTTProCycling.com) Michael Gogl had a very strong day as he finished with the maillot jaune group in 16th position, just over 2 minutes behind the Swiss winner. While Max Walscheid was part of an early group that featured in the breakaway for a large portion of the day. Michael Gogl The plan was to go in the breakaway with a bigger group of riders but then four riders including Max Walscheid, went up the road and then Bora controlled the stage and it came down to the final two climbs. I managed to go in the breakaway on the first of the two climbs and then I was in the front just chasing the few guys out there but in the last climb unfortunately I didn’t have the legs and I had to go my own speed and I came back to the peloton and in the end it was a sprint for the minor places. As the say the legs don’t lie and that’s what I take from today. Max Walscheid It was a pretty hard day and we get too big a gap and you never know without trying. I think we actually did it pretty well just not the best circumstances for a breakaway. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. Media Contact: 
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (http://www.NTTProCycling.com) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (https://Qhubeka.org/) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (https://hello.global.NTT/) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website https://hello.global.NTT/ All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .