 SHANKSVILLE, PA – SEPTEMBER 11: President Donald J. Trump delivers remarks during a ceremony at the Flight 93 National Memorial commemorating the 19th anniversary of the crash of Flight 93 and the September 11th terrorist attacks on September 11, 2020 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. The nation is marking the nineteenth anniversary of the terror attacks of September 11, 2001, when the terrorist group al-Qaeda flew hijacked airplanes into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, killing nearly 3,000 people.   Jeff Swensen/Getty Images/AFP  Nineteen years after the devastating Al-Qaeda attacks, the former vice president Biden began the day in New York for an annual event honoring the nearly 3,000 people who died in the destruction of the World Trade Center. Trump did not attend the ceremony in his home city, sending Mike Pence in his stead. Biden and the vice president tapped elbows and chatted briefly. The Republican president instead traveled to Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where an airliner crashed after passengers tried to wrest control of the jet from the hijackers. Trump and his wife Melania listened in silence as the names of the 40 passengers and crew killed aboard Flight 93 were read aloud — with two bells tolling after the reading of each one. In brief prepared remarks, the incumbent — who is hoping to defeat Biden and win a second term — paid “tribute to their sacrifice” along with all those who perished in the attacks. He also honored first responders as well as military personnel who fought to “preserve our freedom” in the subsequent wars launched under former President George W. Bush. “We resolve to stand united as one American nation, to defend our freedoms, to uphold our values, to love our neighbors, to cherish our country…. and to never, ever forget,” Trump said. It was a rare call for unity from a leader who normally plays political divisions to his advantage. Biden also traveled to Shanksville — but there was no chance of the rivals crossing paths: Trump left well before the Democratic candidate and his wife Jill arrived. – Biden connects with relatives –
At his first stop in New York, Biden did not deliver a speech — the ceremony generally reserves that privilege to the close ones of victims — but his mere presence drew attention at an event broadcast live on main US television networks. The ceremony was as usual punctuated by poignant moments of silence, the first one coming at 8:46 am (1246 GMT), when the first plane hit one of the Twin Towers. The 77-year-old Biden — wearing a face mask — appeared in his element at the relatively crowded event, surrounded by people after months of keeping a low profile in line with coronavirus prevention measures. At one point, he sought common ground with a 90-year-old woman whose son died at 43 in the attacks, reflecting on the loss of his own son Beau to cancer. “It never goes away,” the pair told each other. – ‘Obvious calculations‘ –
In addition to stopping by the official Ground Zero museum ceremony, Pence attended another nearby foundation-organized commemoration where some 100 relatives gathered to read the names of loved ones they lost. The vice president delivered a brief address and his wife read a well-known verse from the Bible. None of the appearances featured prominent political showmanship, though the ceremonies were closely followed by the media and gave the candidates what political scientist Robert Shapiro dubbed a chance to “show their leadership and empathy.” The choice of Trump and Biden to both head to Pennsylvania, a vital election battleground state, illustrates the “obvious calculations” their advisors have made, the Columbia University scholar said. Long a Democratic stronghold and Biden’s native state, Pennsylvania swung narrowly to Trump in the 2016 election, helping him secure victory over Democrat Hillary Clinton. Polls show Trump and Biden nearly even in Pennsylvania, and Democrats hope to win the state back in the November 3 vote. But if the somber commemorations mark a “truce” of sorts on the campaign trail, it is likely to be a short-lived one, as was the case in 2016. Clinton took part in the New York memorial but left the event early because she was feeling ill. Her doctor later revealed he had diagnosed her two days earlier with pneumonia, which she had kept secret. Trump jumped on the incident and for weeks mercilessly mocked his rival’s health. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .