• Two aspirants claim victory Confusion and violence trailed the recent Cross River North Senatorial primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) held on September 5, as two aspirants are claiming victory. Now all the dramatis personae in the primary are in Abuja to state their positions.  Journalists were heavily teargased and the Editor of Watchman magazine, Mr. Lawrence Mpama, almost lost consciousness; he had difficulty breathing for about five minutes, but the rain suddenly came down at that moment to revive the suffocating journalists and some members of the public. No less than 200 policemen flooded the venue and opened fire and teargas on everyone to allow mercenary voters, said to be for Dr. Stephen Odey, enter the venue at the expense of the duly accredited voters that would possibly have voted for Jarigbe. In PDP’s tension-soaked primary, the former Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Odey emerged winner of PDP Cross River North Senatorial bye-election held at Ogoja council secretariat and witnessed by INEC officials. He polled 450 votes while his closest rival Jarigbe garnered 90 votes.  On his part, Idagbo said he was convinced that Odey, would represent the people of the northern senatorial district effectively in the red chamber when elected and commended Governor Ayade for the “peaceful and transparent exercise” stating that Odey’s emergence as a candidate was “a reflection of the will of the people through the delegates of the party in the northern senatorial district”. However, as Odey was celebrating with his supporters, Jarigbe and his supporters were also celebrating. Jarigbe, who rejected reports that Odey won the primary, said, “I am the authentic winner of PDP primary held in Ogoja yesterday (September 5). I thank my people for giving me their votes and for having trust in me as the struggle to liberate our state continues. My election was observed by the INEC monitoring team from Abuja, led by Mr. Modibbo Belel, at Ogoja local government, with a list of authentic delegates as declared by the court.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .