Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Governor Godwin Obaseki (right) and Candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Ize Iyamu hugging each other as Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar and Bishop Matthew Kukah applaud them at the Peace Accord Signing Ceremony in Benin City…yesterday • Obi, Tambuwal, Okowa, Wike, others urge electorate to protect their mandate
• Gov’s reelection will end imposition in Edo politics, says aide Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has declared that with the support of Edo people and endorsements by over 100 groups in the state, he was certain of victory in Saturday’s governorship election. Obaseki, who is candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) made the declaration at the final campaign rally in Benin City, urging eligible voters to come out en masse to vote the PDP to enable him consolidate on the achievements recorded in his first term and end to godfatherism in the state. Former Vice Presidential candidate of PDP in the 2019 general elections, Peter Obi; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa; governors Nyesom Wike, Seyi Makinde, Ben Ayade, Duoye Diri, Victor Ikpeazu, Udom Emmanuel of Rivers, Oyo, Cross-River, Bayelsa, Abia and Akwa Ibom states, among others attended the rally. Obaseki said, “I don’t have anything to say to you my Edo people but to thank you; you have been wonderful especially as we went through the 192 wards to seek your support for reelection. “We will win this election because so far, over 100 groups have endorsed me for the race. With groups like the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC), Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Nigeria Union of Pensioners (NUP) and other groups behind me, we will not lose the election. “Democracy is not a government of godfathers but a government of the people, by the people and for the people. In Edo we have been fighting godfatherism and by Saturday we will put an end to it, and after that go Lagos and put an end to godfatherism in Nigeria. Tambuwal urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies to ensure the conduct of a free, fair and credible poll in the state. On his part, Okowa said, “This is the first time a governor went round from ward-to-ward to campaign. As you vote, remain vigilant and shine your eyes. No one can cheat the majority. Edo will not be left out; all South-south states are PDP, so we don’t want anybody to cheat on us.” Also, Governor Wike said, “If we must fight and put an end to imposition in Nigeria, it must start in Edo on Saturday. The IGP has assured us of a secure election. The INEC Chairman has also assured Edo people of a free, fair and credible election, but don’t let us go and sleep with all these promises but stay awake and be vigilant and ensure that Obaseki wins. SIMILARLY, Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, pointed out that the governor’s reelection on Saturday, would signal the end of godfather influence and imposition in the state’s politics and the entire country. He stated this in Benin City yesterday, saying National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, could not extend his political empire to the state as Edo people were determined to end the godfather syndrome in their domain. He said, “Our attention has been drawn to a television broadcast in which Tinubu, in his quest to extend his political dominance and empire to Edo, decided to take over the role of Edo people to choose who to govern them for the next four years. “It has become obvious that the fight, which Edo people have put up against godfather influence, has sent tremors to Tinubu and his likes, who have sustained a stranglehold on Lagos and other states of the South West, hence this desperate effort to rescue the unproductive political instrument, popularly referred to as godfather,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .