Genesys® (https://www.Genesys.com/), the global leader in cloud customer experience (https://bit.ly/3b8T6Tm) and contact center solutions (https://bit.ly/34U1p4t) announced it is working with Adobe to help organisations break down data siloes between marketing, commerce, sales and service departments. With a new integration between Genesys Cloud with Adobe Experience Platform, organisations can now gain a deeper understanding of customer context across every touchpoint. This will revolutionise how contact center and other business leaders leverage insights to enable more intelligent, continuous and individualised customer engagement. As a Premier partner in the Adobe Exchange program, the company is collaborating with Adobe to help organisations realise the Genesys vision of Experience as a Service(SM).  “For organisations that want to truly develop deep empathy with their customers that results in a unique and differentiated customer experience, the ability to tap into direct and contextual customer data from across the organisation is foundational,” said Alan Webber, vice president of Customer Experience Management Strategies at IDC. “Partnerships like Genesys and Adobe have the opportunity to expose data that has been locked away in function-specific applications to build a more complete understanding of each individual that results in a more personalised experience for which customers will return.” Customers engage with organisations across many different functions, yet their data often doesn’t move with them throughout their journey, resulting in disconnected experiences with minimal personalisation. Even when the data is shared across systems and departments, it typically is not utilised in real-time engagements. Genesys and Adobe are working together to change this by:  “Adobe and Genesys have a shared goal to help businesses more fully leverage their customer data,” said Tony Bates, CEO of Genesys. “The combined power of our interoperable platforms makes it easier for organisations to utilise enriched customer context so they can provide more personalised engagement that builds stronger empathic connections.” “The global imperative for digital engagement has created an even greater sense of urgency for every business to deliver exceptional, personalised digital experiences,” said Shantanu Narayen, CEO of Adobe. “Integrating customer insights from Genesys Cloud into Adobe Experience Platform will give brands a more complete view of their customers, enabling deeper interactions that drive brand loyalty and growth.” The first phase of the Genesys Cloud and Adobe Experience Platform integration is now available with additional capabilities expected throughout 2020. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Genesys. Media Contact:
Shaunna Morgan
Senior Public Relations Manager
Genesys
shaunna.morgan@genesys.com
+1 317-493-4241 About Genesys:
Every year, Genesys® (https://www.Genesys.com/) delivers more than 70 billion remarkable customer experiences for organisations in over 100 countries. Through the power of the cloud and AI, our technology connects every customer moment across marketing, sales and service on any channel, while also improving employee experiences. Genesys pioneered Experience as a ServiceSM so organisations of any size can provide true personalisation at scale, interact with empathy, and foster customer trust and loyalty. This is enabled by Genesys CloudTM, an all-in-one solution and the world’s leading public cloud contact center platform, designed for rapid innovation, scalability and flexibility. Visit https://www.Genesys.com/. ©2020 Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc. All rights reserved. Genesys, the Genesys logo, Genesys Cloud and Experience as a Service are trademarks, service marks and/or registered trademarks of Genesys. All other company names and logos may be registered trademarks or trademarks of their respective companies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .