 Prince Stanley Williams and world-renowned boxing promoter, Don King  Prince Williams, who revealed that Monarch Promotions is licensed in U.S., England, Germany, Ghana, and Nigeria, said he is working on getting licensed in Pakistan to actualize its dream of becoming a global boxing promoter. On April 7, 2018, the outfit invited former world heavyweight champions, Riddick Bowie and Ray Mercer to Lagos as it debuted in Nigeria with its fighters, Sule Olagbade and King Davidson. He had brought renowned fighters from all across the world to participate in ‘Boxfest’, a competition that featured Stephen Okine, Ishmael Tetteh, both of Ghana, Heavyweight Eugen Buchmueller of Germany, Paul Valenzuela Jr of Mexico, Aaron Coley of U.S., Patrick ‘El Elegante’ Lopez of Venezuela and DeMarcus ‘Chop Chop’ Corley of U.S. Prince Williams’ second outing in Nigeria in December 2018 had four WBU world title fights and was tagged ‘King Of The Ring” where he continued to merge his love for music and the ‘Sweet Science,’ even as all the boxers that featured made him proud. At the right side then were two-time former WBO Word Heavyweight champion, Herbie Hide, and former WBF Cruiserweight World Champion, Bash Ali. The World Boxing Union (WBU) awarded him their promoter of the year 2018 for that feat. In 2019, he made history with a bold statement of entry into English boxing promotions, where his ‘The Homecoming’ card sold out at the historic St George’s Hall in Bradford, the hometown of his key fighter, Tasif Khan, who defended his World Boxing Union (WBU) Super Flyweight title in the main event. Explaining his foray into Boxing, Prince Williams said he is in it to create opportunities for Nigeria’s talented youths. “I will always treat my fighters with honesty and integrity because they are very important to me,” he said. Reminiscing on his experience at the WBC 57th Convention in Cancun, Mexico in October 2019, where he mixed with champions, legends, and major players in the boxing world, Prince Williams said, “I was there to meet with the top gladiators of the fight business, make new friends as well as strike good deals for my outfit and fighters.” Williams said he would have given his fighters so much to work on but for the coronavirus that scuppered Monarch Promotions’ events, including ‘King of the Ring’ Two billed for Ghana, a championship in February in the U.S., where Khan, Davidson, and Olagbade were to defend their titles. He said, “We planned to have promotions in Ghana, U.S., Germany, Nigeria, Pakistan, and England in that order in 2020 but we all know how all promoters had their events canceled or postponed indefinitely due to Covid-19. “We are still hoping to have one or two events before the year runs out as our fighters and their fans have really missed a lot.” Prince Williams believes he is on the way to achieving the promise he made to Nigerian boxers after receiving the WBU promoter of the year award in 2018. “Making champions before my countrymen give me pleasure and at Monarch, it is our constant pursuit to bring fight fans the most exciting fights.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .