Tomorrow NTT Pro Cycling (NTTProCycling.com) will lineup for the UCI World Tour Binck Bank Tour. The Belgian stage race has been shortened this year, from 7 stages to 5, due to the currently condensed UCI race calendar.  The 2020 Binck Bank Tour will consist of 4 road stages and a 11km individual time trial (on stage 2). The final stage, that has in recent years always finished in Geraardsbergen, will once again be the queen stage with 4 local laps that include the famous Muur of Geraardsbergen. NTT Pro Cycling will take to the start with a strong classics type team, to suit the parcour. Edvald Boasson Hagen, Michael Gogl, Max Walscheid, Reinardt Janse van Rensburg, Jay Thomson, Rasmus Tiller and Nicholas Dlamini will lineup in Blankenberge tomorrow. Edvald Boasson Hagen – NTT Pro Cycling
“I am looking forward to the Binck Bank Tour. It is always a very tough race as every stage can be like its own mini classic, but if you have good legs, then it can be an enjoyable race too. I hope that will be the case for me and some of the other guys in our team who have just recently finished the Tour de France, as then we have a good chance to ride away with a nice result.”  Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (NTTProCycling.com) (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (hello.global.NTT) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website hello.global.NTT All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .