• Baba Ijebu may take over complex soon After two weeks of ‘operation pull down illegal structures’ at the Lagos National Stadium, the exercise ended yesterday, according to an official of the Ministerial Implementation Committee. The action is aimed at returning the stadium to its original design. Already, some major structures, including the popular Ojez spot, and Old School bars, were pulled down by the bulldozer. Also destroyed were illegal structures underneath the ramps and around the swimming pool of the National stadium, those around the car park and the fence adjoining the entrance gate of the complex, as well as all the mini shops constructed by some individuals underneath the entrance gate leading to the main bowl of the stadium. Also removed were the drinking spot beside the basketball hall, restaurants around the table tennis hall, as well as the eating joint located close to the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). The co-chairman of the Ministerial Committee on ‘Restoration’ of the Lagos National Stadium, former Technical Director of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Retired Navy Commodore Omatseye Nesiama, told The Guardian yesterday that the demolition exercise would end yesterday. He added that they would start clearing the rubbles immediately. Meanwhile, Premier Lotto Limited, popularly called Baba Ijebu, may take over operation of the National Stadium, Lagos, a source close to the Ministry of Youth and Sports hinted at the weekend. According to the source, the demolition of illegal structures within the stadium complex was to prepare the ground for the leasing of the complex to Baba Ijebu, an outfit founded by gaming magnate, Sir Kesington Adebukunola Adebutu. “The man (Baba Ijebu) doesn’t want to inherit a stadium complex, where other businessmen and women are already dominating. I am sure the Federal Government has concluded plans to lease the complex to him,” the source stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .