Kanye West’s Sunday Service choir performing in the middle of a lake | Image: Twitter/KimKardashian Kanye West and his choir were filmed over the weekend walking and performing on water during the latest edition of his popular Sunday service held in Atlanta. In a series of clips shared on Instastories by the Christian rapper’s wife, Kim Kardashian, the choir filed to the middle of the lake where they gathered to perform songs. Sunset Sunday Service in Atlanta tonight pic.twitter.com/N8zq9tCZJv — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) September 6, 2020  The “Jesus Walks” rapper later made his entrance by walking across the lake with his children; seven-year-old daughter North and four-year-old son Saint while Kardashian film from the dry land. Daily Mail reported that the stunt was achieved by walking on a translucent platform hidden just beneath the surface of the pond. Go to my IG stories to watch all Sunday Service videos from tonight  pic.twitter.com/a6eC5uV8gy — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) September 6, 2020  American pastor and televangelist Joel Osteen, while walking on water himself, preached to the group. He praised West and made biblical references. “I’m watching these fine men and women singing, looks like they’re walking on the water. And my mind goes back to that time where Jesus invited Peter to walk on the water. I could imagine Peter thought, “Jesus, what are you talking about? That’s impossible! I can’t do that,” he said. “I think we all have that at times in life where we think, ‘God’s telling me to do something. I’m feeling down on the inside,’ but we don’t feel qualified. We don’t have the experience. I can’t sing like them. I can’t invent like Kanye.” pic.twitter.com/2PGYASTrO6 — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) September 7, 2020  Joel added: “But God doesn’t put a dream in your heart and then not give you the ability to do it. I’ve learned in life, you have to choose between your comfort and your calling. “Peter heard the calling. ‘Come on out here.’ But Peter was comfortable in the boat with the other disciples. It was easy to get comfortable even in dysfunction.” Read More:
“Jesus Shoes” Filled With Holy Water Sold Out In A Minute