Tinubu. Photo: NAIJA • Refutes alleged plot to burn INEC office, says APC’s alarm suspect
• Lagos APC denies rigging plot against ex-gov The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned former Lagos State Governor, Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s attempts to arrogate to himself supreme powers, lord it over Edo people and dictate their choice of leaders. It noted that Tibunu’s claim to be the leader of democrats in Nigeria was pathetic and derisory, saying the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was obviously not democratic due to his penchant for imposing candidates at all levels in Lagos and the South West. Its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Tinubu’s attitude smacked of hypocrisy, stressing, “That an individual who claims to be a democrat will chose to insult the people of Edo State over their preference for Governor Godwin Obaseki for another term, due to his democratic qualities and performance in office, is unthinkable and unacceptable. Also, the Edo State PDP Campaign Council has described allegations that the party was planning to burn the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office in Edo State, ahead of the governorship election as false and mischievous. Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee of the Council, Chris Osa Nehikhare, said the APC concocted claim, saying the party comprised of people with defeatist mindset, who are grasping at straws in the face of imminent defeat in the election. “However, we urge security agencies to take the claim seriously, as we are concerned that the APC might actually do what it has accused others of planning,” he stated. He noted that the PDP was prepared for the election and would emerge victorious, adding that the people would finally bury the godfather menace in the state after the poll. MEANWHILE, Chairman, Lagos State chapter of APC, Chief Tunde Balogun, chided the PDP and Governor Obaseki over allegations of plans to interfere and rig the election against Tinubu. In a statement yesterday, Balogun said the governor was the architect of his own imminent defeat in Saturday’s governorship election. But former Deputy National Chairman of PDP, Chief Olabode George, said Obaseki deserves re-election because the incumbent is a good man with a kind heart who has devoted the last four years to the service of the good people of Edo State, with total selflessness and sacrifice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .