• Dare, Pinnick console Governor Abubakar on flooding incident
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) yesterday flagged off the construction of the Kebbi mini stadium being sponsored by the world football governing body, FIFA.  The project is estimated to cost $1.189 million. Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, his deputy, Col. Samaila Yombe-Dabe (rtd), members of the state executive council, permanent secretaries and special advisers joined the representative of the NFF president, Alhaji Ibrahim Musa Gusau, NFF General Secretary, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, a couple other NFF officials and the contractors to set off the project. Speaking at the ceremony, Gusau said the project would be concluded in six months and assured the Kebbi State government that the contractor would do an excellent job. “When the General Secretary of the NFF, Dr. Mohammed Sanusi, mooted the idea of this project during one of our meetings in Asaba, Delta State in 2018, he presented to the board a sound argument, and I must also give kudos to the board for graciously approving his request. “ your administration has offered first grade assistance in every process along the line; we appreciate your efforts in empowering the youth,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Sanusi said the scope of the work entails the construction of covered spectators stand with players’ change and medical rooms. He added that the project has a FIFA one-star artificial football pitch (FIFA standard), placement of seat, asphalt paved driveway, parking, gate, gatehouse, perimeter fence and landscape, adding that it would have about 267 seats with 5,000 capacity extension in view. In his response, Bagudu said the project would empower the youth, while acknowledging sports as contributor to national development and unity. Meanwhile, the Minister of Youth Sports and Development, Sunday Dare and Pinnick have empathised with the government and people of Kebbi State on the flooding, which occurred in the state penultimate week.
 
Sanusi delivered the messages of Dare and Pinnick to Governor Bagudu yesterday.
 
While making his remark at the ground-breaking ceremony of the FIFA/NFF Mini-Stadium in Birnin Kebbi, Sanusi said the hearts of Messrs Dare and Pinnick are with the government and good people of the state over the unfortunate incident. “The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, as well as NFF President, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, asked me to deliver their messages of empathy to the government and people of Kebbi State on the havoc caused by the flooding a fortnight ago. They pray that Kebbi State would not witness such unfortunate incident again.” Sanusi also assured that the minister and the NFF president would be on ground for the opening of the FIFA mini-stadium when the construction is completed in March 2021. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .