Kano State Government has partnered with Independent Hajj Reporters (IHR) to bring to speed the new diplomatic orientation on Hajj and Umurah exercise. The collaboration which would focus on capacity building for staff of the state Pilgrims Welfare Board to keep them abreast of the new norms and regulations introduced by Saudi Arabia Authorities in the wake COVID-19 pandemic. The state Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba gave the assurance on Tuesday when he received the executive of IHR led by the National Coordinator, Mallam Ibrahim Mohammad in Kano. Garba, who acknowledged the new challenges occasioned by the global health burden contended on the need for the partnership to brace up the field officers in tune with the new orientation ahead of 2021 Hajj exercise. The former President of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) explained the inevitable role of media in the areas of sensitization and awareness creation for intending pilgrims reassured Kano state mutual collaboration with the hajj reporters. Garba applauded the professional process of IHR in keeping Nigerians abreast of the 2020 hajj in Saudi Arabia despite the inability of International pilgrims to participate as a result of COVID-19 pandemic. “The collaboration is very important especially now that things are changing every day and the patterns of performing Hajj in previous years would be entirely different from that of the year 2021 due to the pandemic the world encountered,” Garba said. “The media organizations have vital role to play in enlightening pilgrims on how to perform next year’s Hajj with strict adherence to COVID-19 preventive measures and we have the firm conviction that your organization will do justice to that. Let me assure you of Kano state government support and collaborate with Kano state Pilgrims Welfare Board towards achieving the desired goal.” National Coordinator, IHR, Ibrahim Muhammad explained that the sudden hit of COVID-19 has altered hajj and Umurah exercises in the world and emphasised the need for a state like Kano to be familiar with the paradigm shift. He said the new patterns of performing Hajj introduced by Saudia Arabia has significantly differed from the regular practice because of the current global pandemic that has affected all aspects of life. Muhammad disclosed that IHR partners with five international and Saudi Arabia based media outfits to deepening information generation and awareness creation. He added that IHR which presently operate on various social media platforms will soon unveil it’s radio and television stations that will focus mainly on Hajj and Umurah activities. The IHR team had earlier paid a courtesy visit to the executive secretary, Kano State Pilgrims Welfare Board, Alh. Abba Mohammad Dambatta who applauded the activity of IHR in creating the authoritative source and platform for Hajj and Umurah exercise.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .