 Nigerian Television Authority (NTA). Photo; WIKIPEDIA  Quite typical of most joint ventures signed by government officials, mistakes had been made in this PayTV deal too. But beyond a forensic audit of its losses and search for alleged missing N200 billion, it is time to review the entire business model. The viable alternative, in the main, is for the government to step aside and push its 30 per cent equity to private investors, who are skilled in international standards, to run NTA-StarTimes efficiently, competitively and profitably.
 
Indeed, digitisation has disrupted almost every sphere of daily lives, including the mode of communication and telecommunication services. Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) is a latecomer in the Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT) revolution. The government-owned network in 2008 went into a partnership with the Star Communications Technology of China, to birth NTA-Star TV Network Limited – the operator of StarTimes PayTV. About 12 years after the deal and 11 years of StarTimes PayTV viewership, officials recently got summons to account for their stewardship.  
 
The Senate’s call for accountability could not have come at a better time. At a period when both the regulator, Nigerian Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and the dominant PayTV provider, Multichoice, have conspired against Nigerians in raising fares so ferociously, it is worth asking state officials what has become of similar quasi-indigenous venture that should ordinarily be competing with DSTV?   But to the chagrin of all present at the recent Senate hearing, NTA-StarTimes venture has not made much progress or any profit in 11 years! NTA Director-General, Yakubu Ibn Mohammed, told the Senate that the business status has not changed much compared to 2009 when he was an Executive Director. He later said an average of N6 billion, made in the last three years, was immediately ploughed back into the venture. Those were disclosures that should not be allowed to go without proper investigations.
 
Thankfully, the management of NTA-Star TV Network Limited has welcomed a forensic audit on its finances and operations, as requested by the Senate’s Joint Committee on Finance and National Planning. The Public Relations Manager of the company, Lazarus Ibeabuchi, also explained that no revenue of N200 billion was missing, as its gross earnings had been repeatedly shipped back into cost of production to cover expenditure on transmitters, equipment, generating sets and satellite, content acquisition, as well as operating costs, which include salaries and other running costs, incurred within its 10 years of operation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .