ICPC Commissions Anti-Corruption Unit At FAAN 
All appears set for today’s resumption of international commercial flight operations after five mouths of lockdown. The Lagos State government, following the last minute inspections of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) yesterday, expressed satisfaction at the preparedness of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to manage travel activities in line with COVID-19 protocols. According to schedule, a couple of flights will arrive later today, beginning with Middle East Airline and British Airways airplanes. In related developments, the Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) has inaugurated members of FAAN Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU). This early phase would permit only a maximum of 1280 arriving passengers or four flights per day at each of the airports. Already, more than 10 airlines have expressed readiness to resume international flight operations. Speaking after an inspection of facilities, Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Obafemi Hamzat, who led the delegation from the state government, noted that he had gone through the various measures put in place to ensure safety and security of travellers as international flight operations resume. Hamzat added that from the departure frontage, to the check-in area, screening point, immigration area, up to the boarding gate, FAAN has fully complied with laid down protocols to ensure physical distancing by the markings on ground, proper temperature checks and hand washing/sanitising. He enjoined travellers and airport users to follow instructions given by officials in the interest of safety. Managing Director, FAAN, Rabiu Yadudu, thanked the state government for their continuous support. At an inauguration/induction ceremony held at the Conference Centre of Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, Yadudu stated that corruption constitutes an unusual and extra ordinary threat to national security and socio-economic development of Nigeria. Assuring the Chairman, ICPC of their commitment towards the success of the unit, he charged members of the unit to be of exemplary conduct and maintain personal integrity at all times in the discharge of their duties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .