Tone Your Abdominal Abs With These 4 Core Exercises There are some stubborn fats that stay in the stomach even after losing excessive fats. The abdominal muscle can be toned by some core exercises. Below are some exercises you can consider for toning your abdominal abs according to Fit day: Jack Knife Sit Ups
A jackknife sit-up is a more complex sit-up, involving all abdominal muscles. Lie on your mat, with the legs straight on the mat and your hands to the sides. Lift your feet and head at the same time. Maintain this position for 3 seconds and then lower your feet and head. Sit-Ups
Sit-ups are the best-known core exercises used to shape the tummy. Lie on the ground or on a yoga mat, keeping your knees bent and the feet on the mat. Your hands should be held at the back of your head. Tighten your abs and lift your head and shoulders off the mat, making sure the feet remain on the ground. Remain in the air with your abs tightened for 1 to 3 seconds and return to your initial position. Repeat the move 10 to 20 times. Planking
This is also very good for toning your abdominal abs. Start on your hands and knees. Lower down so your elbows are on the floor, placing them directly underneath your shoulders. Extend your legs out, coming up on your toes and lifting your body into a straight line. Squeeze your abs, glutes, and legs to stay in a straight line. Ensure you are not allowing your hips lift up or sag down. Hold for 60 seconds. Crunches
The crunches are similar to sit-ups. The initial position is the same, with the back on the mat and knees bent. The hands will be kept crossed on the chest or at the back of your head. Inhale and lift your head and shoulders by tightening your abdominal muscles. Stay in this position for a few seconds, exhale and return to the starting position. The crunches may replace the sit-ups; choose the sit-ups if you experience neck pain. When you do these exercises, you need to also be cautious of what you eat as the things you take in matter a lot.