 Chairman of  NASFAT Agency for Zakat and Sadaqat (NAZAS), Alhaji Afeez Bakare (left) presenting NAZAS Muharam Zakat   dummy cheque , flanked by officials of NAZAS.  Chairman of NAZAS, Afeez Bakare, speaking during the yearly Muharram disbursement ceremony, said the foundation is a credible platform for collection, distribution, administration and management of charity, channel towards members of Muslim faith as well as non-Muslims. Bakare noted that NAZAS has remained steadfast in its mission to help save and improve lives despite the havoc wreaked on the economy by the pandemic. “The economy of the country has also taken a hit as a result of COVID-19, people’s sources of livelihood have been eroded within this period.  As an agency that looks at charity, we have a lot more responsibility that we have ever had at this point in time,” he said. He said that NAZAS has continued to increase in terms of Zakat proceeds despite the economic downturn. “NAZAS was incorporated in 2014 and have collected over N300 million proceeds up till this moment .2018 that was the first time we collected over N40 million and as at last year 2019 we collected about N72.6 million, which is a major jump. As at this year 2020 up till this moment we’ve collected over N60 million and the disbursement we’ve done from our various zone including what is happening here today, we’ve had about N40 million disbursement”. The Chief Missioner of NASFAT, Imam Abdulazeez Onike, urged the beneficiaries to use the equipment and funds given to them to improve their economic status and set themselves on the path of financial freedom. “Zakat distribution is a demonstration of the fact that Islam is a way of life. Which is in line with NASFAT HELD policy, (Health, Education, Livelihood and Dawah) policy”. Onike urged eligible Muslims to be alive to the duty of regularly paying zakat, a pillar of Islam, in order to better the lot of underprivileged Muslims and earn the pleasure of Allah as a reward. “We must ensure that wherever we found ourselves as Muslim, people in our environment must live a good life regardless of their faith, sex, status. The National President of NASFAT, Alhaji Niyi Yusuf ably represented by the National Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja  Suwebat Bola Kupolati, noted that the proceeds were donated by different donours to alleviate their suffering, as stated in the Holy Quran. “We have eight beneficiaries in the Quran and that is the step that NASFAT has been taking all the years. I believe this is the reason why Allah is continuously blessing NASFAT to continue to receive Zakat from the donours and also make donours to bring their Zakat to NASFAT ‘’ she stated. A beneficiary, Rashidat Toyin Anomo, commended NASFAT for its unrelented effort in bridging the gap between the rich and the poor and she prayed for the donours.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .