 [FILES] APC Consolidation Group (APC-CG) has reiterated the call for the sacking of the service chiefs, noting that the rating had confirmed that they were not on top of the security situation. Photo; STERLINGSECGUARDS  The GTI, which is in its sixth edition, is produced yearly by the Institute for Economics and Peace, an independent, non-partisan, non-profit think tank with offices in Sydney, New York, and Mexico City. Describing the ranking as disappointing and embarrassing, the support group urged President Muhammad Buhari to immediately sack the military chiefs, stating that anything to the contrary would portray the Nigerian leader as “being insensitive to the security of lives and property of citizens which he swore to protect.” Its National Coordinator, Dr. Usman Mohammed, in a statement yesterday in Abuja, said the group is disturbed given what the government had expended so far to contain insecurity in the most populous black nation. Titled “Sack Service Chiefs over Global Terrorism Rating”, the release observed that the poor showing would “further drive away foreign investments, thus reduce the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).” Labelling the evaluation “the worst thing that has ever happened to a government that means so well for the people like the government of President Muhammad Buhari,” the group submitted: “No doubt, the rating is so due to the actions and inactions of his service chiefs.” “We are saddened by this report, which by implication, will close many economic doors on Nigeria and drastically bring down our GDP,” it added. The statement read in part: “We, the entire members of APC Consolidation Group (APC-CG) received with rude shock and total disappointment the 2019 Global Terrorism Index (GTI) report which ranks Nigeria as the third most terrorised country in the world. Report is the worst thing that has ever happened to a government that means so well for the people like the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. No doubt, the rating is so due to the actions and inaction of his service chiefs. So, we are worried about our dear President’s continued retention of these officers.” “Consequently, we are calling on the President to sack the current security chiefs heading the Nigerian armed forces – the Chiefs of Defence, Army, Air Force, and Naval Staff – over their inability to deliver on his vision and the expectation of Nigerians on security. “We are saddened by this report which by implication will close many economic doors on Nigeria and drastically bring down our GDP. Investors will leave Nigeria and intending once may have a rethink about coming to Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .