A total of 1, 785 candidates were yesterday called to the Nigerian Bar, having passed the January final examinations conducted by the Nigerian Law School under the supervision of the Council of Legal Education. At the ceremony held at Eagle Square, Abuja, the Director General, Nigerian Law School, Prof. Isa Hayatu (SAN), stated that 1, 779 candidates passed the January Bar final examinations, while six candidates were from previous final examinations. According to Hayatu, 2, 515 students sat for the examinations but only 1, 779 were successful. Out of this figure, five candidates made First Class, 76 made Second Class Upper, 633 graduated with Second Class Lower Division while 1, 065 came out with a pass. The D.G said the candidates successfully completed the vocational training at the law school as prescribed by the Legal Education Act, and had also taken the prescribed examinations and met all other required conditions set by the Council of Legal Education. He said: “I am happy to affirm that they all exhibited good manners and decorum during their training. They have also been groomed in the best ethics and ethos of our noble profession.” Hayatu, who congratulated the “new wigs” for their hard work, dedication and steadfastness, said he closely monitored the aspirants during their training and vouched for each and every one of them as men and women of learning and character as demanded by the council. In his remarks, Chairman, Body of Benchers, Onueze Okocha (SAN) noted that since inception in 1962, the Council of Legal Education, through the Nigerian Law School, has continued to ensure that all candidates for admission into the legal profession in Nigeria are equipped with requisite knowledge and skill to enable them practice as legal practitioners. He charged the new lawyers to be of good character and uphold honesty and integrity, which are the hallmarks of the legal profession. “In all that you do while in practice, commit yourselves to upholding the rule of law and pursuit of justice. As legal practitioners, we are all bound to observe and uphold the rules of professional conduct in the legal profession,” he said. Okocha, who is a life bencher, warned the new lawyers that any breach of the rules and regulations would be met with severe censors and sanctions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .