Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, said no excuse would be tenable for his administration not to deliver on its electoral promises to residents. Sanwo-Olu, who stated this during the opening ceremony of the first Lagos State two-day ministerial performance review retreat, said despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the state government was determined to step up the tempo of governance through innovative and inclusive policies. He assured Lagosians that his administration would fulfil all his promises despite disruption occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges that were not envisaged. The governor maintained that fulfilling the promises in line with the T.H.E.M.E.S development agenda for ‘Greater Lagos’ would be delivered by the incumbent administration despite reduction in the budget as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said: “I want to assure you that despite disruption occasioned by COVID-19 and other challenges that we did not envisage, we are still committed as a government to fulfilling the promises we made to people, knowing fully that no excuse will be tenable to our citizens.” Sanwo-Olu also asked members of the state executive council and other public office holders to be committed to the administration’s effort to meet the yearnings and aspirations of Lagosians, especially the electorate. The Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, in his address at the retreat, said: “We should understand that our focus should be Lagosians, because ultimately, they will define what we do and they will grade us. So, we are like in an examination now and examiners don’t have deep knowledge into the operations of how we actually do things but they only measure it by perception and of course by what they see. “And as such, our job is to make sure that we set that perception right and then we give quality things in dimension; that at the end of the day, our integrity will be intact and then they can say the party and this government have done very well.” Also, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs. Folashade Jaji, said the COVID-19 pandemic had adversely affected governments and institutions globally, adding that Lagos State, which is not left out, was the epicentre of cases in Nigeria for a long. She, therefore, commended the governor and his deputy, the Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, as well as the entire health sector family in Lagos State for the outstanding management of the pandemic, which was acknowledged statewide, nationally and internationally. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .