In a stage where it was initially thought that the pure sprinters would line up to challenge for honours, Bora drove a fierce pace that splintered the peleton almost from the start, and then crosswinds played a decisive role in the latter stages and caused further splits.  Michael Gogl and Boasson Hagen were in the final group of around 40 riders that went to the line, with the Austrian leading out his Norwegian colleague in the exciting sprint for home. Boasson Hagen looked like he might claim a fourth career stage victory but van Aert edged it on the line in yet another victory in what’s been a very impressive season so far the Belgian. Edvald Boasson Hagen I’ve watched it back briefly, and it was close on the line there and a real pity that I didn’t go all the way after a nice leadout from Gogl. But I’m happy with the teamwork at the front and have to appreciate a good result, but of course I would have liked to be further up. It’s all about winning and of course I would like to be on the top of the podium in such big races as that’s what counts, but I have to be happy to with a second place and it give us something to work on so hopefully a first place will come. I’ve had quite a few second places over the years but I can’t be too unhappy about it but I will keep on working and hopefully get a better result. Bjarne Riis We want to win so badly and then being that close with Edvald – it’s such a pity. Gogl and Edvald did a fantastic job in the end, I think we can all see that, and it was very nice to see (for me too). Strong work from Michael Gogl and then Edvald almost finished it off, you can’t get closer than that. Ryan Gibbons It was very close indeed, I think it had everyone on the edge of their seats, everyone back in South Africa and every NTT Pro Cycling fan. Eddy went out early and a fantastic job from Michael but Wout van Aert is a man on form and just getting past him at the end. It absolutely ripped part from the beginning, there were sprinters all over the place and every sprinting team thought it could come back together at one point there were four or fine groups on road all of them going flat out. Eventually the sprinters succumbed realising that it wasn’t going to happen and the front group was left to sort themselves out and have some fun I had my moments – ups and downs – today and this morning wasn’t too great but fortunately I did feel better on the bike so let’s keep fingers crossed that it continues to improve. Please visit the following link for the downloadable audio of the riders for rights-free usage, here. (https://bit.ly/2QUu415) Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. For further enquiries:
Jean Smyth
Head of Communications
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (NTTProCycling.com) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (hello.global.ntt) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website hello.global.ntt All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .