  The Anglican Bishop of Nnewi Diocese, Rt. Rev’d Ndubuisi Obi has said that Nigeria, as presently constituted, is not working. He said the country is unworkable unless the faulty unitary foundation is reset on the path of a restructured federation back to its independence-era structure, where it all began. The cleric, who pointed this out in his maiden presidential charge at the recent 2020 Synod of Nnewi Diocese of the Anglican Communion, noted that “It is the common people that are suffering; there is abject poverty in the land despite our touted oil revenue. This is the most unacceptable. Nigeria is only working for those who are benefitting from it. It is working for the elites.” Pointing the way out of the wood for the nation, the bishop called for restructuring as the way to go, noting that such a bold initiative would stem the tide of persistent and wanton killings in parts of Nigeria and also stop other atrocities that have befallen the nation. He said, “The hydra-headed federal government must be dismantled and power should be ceded to the regions while we have a loose, coordinating government at the federal level. If we are a federal republic, then the regions must become federating regions and be allowed to run their affairs, manage their resources, and develop at their paces. This is the simplest, unambiguous way to put Nigeria on the path of recovery.” Obi passionately appealed to President Muhamadu Buhari to make every effort to secure the release of Leah Sharibu and all other abducted citizens, who are still in captivity in the den of terrorists. On the coronavirus pandemic, Bishop Obi said Nigerians should do everything possible to protect themselves by maintaining good hygiene at all times, avoiding crowded places, reducing too much travelling, and praying always. A governorship aspirant, Tobe Olisa Olih, while commending the diocese for the giant steps taken in the last year, expressed joy that the diocese shares his vision on how to refocus, transform and rebuild the state. He thanked the bishop for proceeding to implement a key part of his manifesto of mass employment, agric revolution, vocational training, and infrastructural development in the state as a subtle way of taming the monstrosity of criminal activities among youth. Olih noted that the state should carry out the background on the next governor and should not be swayed by mere promises that end being abandoned soon after. Olih said he would make Anambra a model when voted into power. Also, a Labor Party (LP) governorship hopeful, Group Captain Nnamdi Nnoruka (rtd) commended Bishop Obi for his outstanding achievements and sure-footed development roadmap since mounting the saddle. He anchored his aspiration on the provision of jobs, industrialization, moral rebirth of the youth, and vocational training, with the aim of turning the state into a human resource centre for the country. He said that he would address the multifaceted challenges confronting Anambra State if he makes it to Government House, Awka. The Archbishop Emeritus of the Province of the Niger, His Grace Maxwell Anikwenwa, insisted that the “hike in electricity tariff must be reversed if the government wants to govern the living and not the dead.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .