 Dele Adesina  Meanwhile, the preparations for the handing over to the newly elected national officers were in top gear at the same time. The handover is usually the climax of an annual general conference of the association. In line with its mandate, the Technical Committee on the Conference Planning (TCCP) of the NBA chaired by the erudite scholar, Prof. Konyinsola Ajayi (SAN) extended a speaking invitation to prominent Nigerians and non-Nigerians. One of those invited was the governor of Kaduna State, Nasir El-Rufai.
  
As soon as lawyers saw that El-Rufai was billed to speak in one session at the conference, all hell was let loose. A protest erupted among the members of the profession. They wrote a letter to the TCCP, accusing the governor of having a penchant for disobeying court orders and being deviant to the rule of law. They also accused him of failing to stem the tide in the wake of killings in Southern Kaduna, and having poor human rights record. The letter, which was signed by Silas Onu and Auta Nyada listed 10 allegations against El-Rufai and his son, Bello, who is a Special Adviser to Kaduna Central lawmaker, Senator Uba Sani. Soon, the petition gained online traction. Another lawyer, Usani Odum created an online petition for change.org, which generated over 500 signatures. The protesters withdrew their interest to take part in the conference unless El-Rufai was dis-invited. At the meeting of the National Executive Committee (NEC), which is the highest decision-making body of the association held on August 20, the body withdrew the invitation.  The call for speedy dispensation of justice
And amidst those controversies, the association weathered the storm and kick-started the three-day conference on August 26 with President Muhammadu Buhari delivering the opening speech. He called for speedy dispensation of justice. The president, speaking through his Vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) said there is no other group of individuals outside the legal community that are as crucial to the sustenance of democracy, law and order than the men and women in the legal profession. The 60th conference, which was hosted online, had the theme: “step forward” and drew participants within and outside Nigeria. The president said: “I believe we need to step forward and resolve some emerging problems of our system of administration of justice. Reform is urgent because the fabric of our society is stitched together by our system of justice and law enforcement. We cannot afford to have the stitches come undone. The first issue I would like to commend to your consideration is the slow pace of trial in our courts. I’m not a lawyer, but I have been a beneficiary of the judicial process.”
  
The president who lamented the times he spent at the election tribunals, trying to challenge his defeats, expressed happiness that the law has changed to limit the time frame to eight months. He wondered why the time limit is not applied to other cases aside election petitions. “Why can’t we put in place the rules that will say that a criminal matter all the way to the Supreme Court must not exceed 12 months in duration? Why can’t we do the same for civil cases? Even if we say that civil cases must not go beyond between 12 and 15 months, I think we would be stepping forward,” he declared. According to him, in a competitive global economy, the speed of our legal processes must match up with the global pace of transactions. Inability to match up, he noted, has a negative implication to the country’s efforts to promote the ease of doing business and position Nigeria as the favoured investment destination.
  
Commending the Supreme Court for validating virtual court proceedings and paving the way for use of technology to enhance justice administration, he expressed disappointment over conflicting court judgments within the judiciary. His words: “The second issue for me is the multiple and sometimes conflicting orders of the court. I’m not a lawyer, but surely, this mode of multiple and conflicting rulings of courts, usually, and sometimes ex-parte make a mockery of the judicial process.” Warning against the use of legal technicalities to subvert justice, the president said court decisions must make sense to both lawyers and non-lawyers who are in the majority, adding that the mode of appointment of judges must be reviewed.  The keynote speaker, Mrs Ibukun Awosika said legal practitioners play a lot of roles in society. She said lawyers have so much opportunity to build and shape a better society. “My challenge for you is that it is time for you to step forward because it is unacceptable and inexcusable considering that those who have the power to influence things for the benefit of our society are lawyers,” she said, adding that they should show more character and commitment in creating values in the practice of law and for nation-building. She urged the NBA to ensure that it holds its members accountable.  In his opening remarks, the Chairman of the TCCP, Prof. Ajayi noted that the conference is a landmark in the annals of the association, adding that it is the “first virtual conference ever of the NBA.”  Regarding the controversies that trailed the conference, he apologized to those “who may have felt offended” by the turn of events.
  
The Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN) stated that the Federal Government would continue to support judicial autonomy. He noted that his ministry has aided the recovery of USD$301 million looted funds, which have been “ploughed into the economy,” adding that the theme of the conference urges all stakeholders “to step out of our comfort zone” and take measures that galvanise economic development. Represented by the Solicitor General of the Federation & Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Justice, Mr Dayo Apata (SAN), Malami stated that President Buhari has “improved” Nigeria’s legal system through issuing Executive Orders “for better implementation of the law,” adding that there is a need for better understanding of executive orders. He stated that Executive Orders are directives, which outline how to implement existing law, adding that such orders “must flow from the Constitution and Acts of the National Assembly.” Wike, Ezekwesili, Obi others chart a path for national identity
Eminent Nigerians on the second day of the conference charted a path for the nation’s national identity question and called for the removal of the federal character and quota system in the country. The speakers included the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, former minister of education, Dr Oby Ezekwesili, ex-governor of Anambra state, Mr Peter Obi and the former minister of women affairs, Salamatu Suleiman. Moderated by Mr George Etomi and Wale Akoni (SAN) leading in the speeches, the participants argued the “national identity and the citizenship versus indigeneship conundrum” and came up with the verdict that the country cannot make progress unless ethnicity, federal character and quota system are done away with.
  
Governor Wike, represented by his attorney general, Prof Adangor Zaccheaus said until we resolve ethnicity, national identity would continue to elude us. Ethnicity, he said, lies at the heart of Nigeria’s multilateral federalism. “The result is that the nation brought together in 1914 had never seen themselves as one. We should encourage and make sure that no ethnic group dominates our federalism, so we form a nation. “Until we enthrone justice, we will continue with the problem of indigeneship. We need to give equal opportunity to all the constituent units so we can make progress. To think you can bring distinct ethnic nationalities together forcefully by using a centrally dominated federalism will fail,” he said.
  
Ezekwesili said Nigeria’s failure to transcend from a country put together by Britain to one that has a shared value, vision and sense of common identity based on a social contract was its undoing. According to her, Nigeria missed great opportunities, including after 1967 to 1970 genocide in the Biafran war to transcend to nationhood. “We built on sandy soil. It has been a rent state open to capture by any group that managed to dominate the rest and gain ascendency into leadership. That has made it different from other countries like Singapore that is a multi-ethnic society.  Osinbajo assures of government’s commitment to growth
Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) had stated that the federal government was committed to saving jobs and creating new ones through the economic sustainability plan. He said that the government has similarly created a survival fund and payroll support for artisans, private school teachers and small businesses. The VP, speaking on the state of the nation through the COVID-19 pandemic, explained that the government’s key worry was how the pandemic would affect jobs. According to him, the federal government is compiling data, while it already sets the criterion. The session, which the president of the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN), Mr Nduka Obaigbena moderated, had the speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila in attendance. Osinbajo said: “Through the Economic Sustainability Plan, the FG’s focus is to save jobs and create new ones. Similarly, there is a survival fund and payroll support for artisans, private school teachers and small businesses. “We are compiling the data and we have already set the criteria. There are plans also for other sectors, including the hospitality and aviation sector.” On the economy, Prof. Osinbajo said Nigeria has fared better compared to other economies, although there is severe decline.    “Economics like politics is local. Compared to other economies, we have fared better. We, however, recognize that there is a severe decline. The Economic Sustainability Plan is our response to that and we will focus on local industry, local resources and local production.  Obaigbena charged lawyers to ensure that free speech is promoted in the country and that citizens’ rights are always protected. “The NBA should remain a champion of free speech. No matter how uncomfortable you are with anybody’s opinion, you must give everybody free speech,” he said. Pandora box of N119 million ‘scam’
Plagued by a plethora of intractable controversies, the outgone General Secretary of the NBA, Jonathan Taidi, few hours to the handover ceremony accused his president, Mr Usoro of attempting to fleece the association N119million, a sign of a divided executive. He also accused him of undermining his office on account of his “personal relationship” with the head of Bar services at the national secretariat, Ayodeji Oni, who he (Taidi) suspended on August 25, 2020, for acts of gross insubordination but was reinstated by the president. According to Taidi, such action by the president was borne out of grievances of not allowing him to have his way with NBA funds.
  
He said: “Your directive to Ayodeji Oni to resume work today is aimed at undermining my office for refusing to recommend payment to a private company for a contract you awarded to the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company (NSPMC) for the printing of 2019/2020 practice license in the sum of N20 million, which I consider being unlawful. I recall that in September 2019, you sent me an invoice in the sum of N104 million purportedly meant for the purchase of a new elevator for the NBA House. I blocked the attempt to fleece the NBA, and I know you have not forgiven me.” According to Taidi, Usoro paid N15 million to a female staff of the Supreme Court for services not rendered to the NBA, which he (Taidi) refused to recommend, in addition to other infractions.
  
But Usoro, who said he was taken aback by those allegations, expressed shock that his secretary could harbour what he described as deep-seated animosity against him. “I couldn’t have known you carry so much bile and harbour so much hatred against me all these while,” he said. He maintained that he has no relationship with the lady and did not embark on any attempt to fleece the Bar. He said: “You should have told me and also let me know what makes the contract unlawful. As you know, NSPMC in its letter recommended the third party Company that you are referring to and for your information, I neither know the Company or any person connected therewith, nor do I know anybody whomsoever in NSPMC.  Vibrant NBA sections
As it is customary, vibrant sections of the NBA had their meetings. They are Section on Legal Practice (SLP), NBA Women Forum, Section on Public Interest and Development Law (SPIDEL) and the Section on business law (NBA-BL).  Mr Ayuli Jemide took over from Mr Seni Adio (SAN). In his acceptance speech, he said chairing the SBL would be a significant task, which he would not take for, granted.  Finally, the baton exchanged
All the controversies notwithstanding, Akpata was last Friday sworn in as the 30th President of the NBA. Akpata, who is the first non-SAN to emerge president of the association in the last 30 years, pledged to run an inclusive Bar. The swearing-in ceremony was held at the NBA building in Abuja and was the climax of the 60th Annual General Meeting of the Association, to announce the end of the conference. He was sworn in by his predecessor, Usoro. After the motion for the dissolution of the Usoro-led NEC was moved and approved, Akpata was sworn in. And thereafter, he performed his first assignment of swearing in other members of his cabinet. Acknowledging the role of young lawyers, he pledged to work hard towards justifying the confidence reposed in him and his executive.  He immediately announced the constitution of an Electoral Audit and Reforms Committee, comprising distinguished practitioners to audit its 2016, 2018 and 2020 elections and recommend reforms for electoral systems and processes. Ayo Akintunde (SAN) would chair the committee. On NBA Stamp and Seal, Akpata pledged to issue two packs of 48 stamps for free to all verified legal practitioners who pay their Bar Practising Fees not later than 31 March 2021 among other lofty promises.
  
Whether the ebullience with which the new leadership started would translate to enduring reforms, cheery legacies and a united and vibrant Bar remains to be seen. For now, all fingers are crossed and Akpata, in his shoulders, lays the burden of Nigerian lawyers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .