 The President of ATCON, Olusola Teniola  Speaking with The Guardian on the issue, the President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Olusola Teniola, said the investments made for the explosive voice market, defined as mobile telephony in Nigeria, was on the back of light-handed regulation.
This was in line with OFCOM, the UK regulator, and assisted the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), to supervise the exponential growth in voice penetration on investments totalling $58 billion over a 12 year period.
  
Teniola, an engineer, said to sustain this, “more investments are required to build upon this infrastructure to cater to resilient networks, a national backbone network, sharing of infrastructure in the wholesale market where capacity exists. Also required is increased spectrum capacity in the way of additional contiguous bandwidth to keep up with data and bandwidth hungry application demand, and most importantly the diversification of cable landing stations along the coastal line of Nigeria. This is to avoid Single Points of Failure at Lagos, and intra-traffic going into the hinterland that are landlocked.”
  
According to him, these are issues that have been exposed during the COVID-19 pandemic and post, which underscores the need to accelerate and expedite implementation of the Nigerian National Broadband Plan 2020-25.  The report stated that while different industries are at varying stages of their 5G investment journey, they all need support to realize the opportunities on offer.
   
Indeed, 80 of enterprises across verticals want 5G providers to articulate a more coherent 5G vision, underlining the need for clearer dialogue. The report also highlights the opportunity for the sector to strengthen its societal position more broadly.
   
EY’s Loozen added: “Telcos’ relationships with government are deepening, with operators playing a pivotal role in pandemic response and recovery, positioning telecoms’ status as a national strategic asset more so than ever. Making the most of this more intimate relationship will require on-going focus.”
  
Other risks listed include: failure to redesign workforce purpose and inclusion (third in the ranking); failure to improve capex efficiency and network returns (fourth); poor management of investor and stakeholder expectations (sixth); inability to adapt to a changing regulatory landscape (eighth); and failure to take advantage of changing market structures (tenth). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .