To promote innovation, demonstrated in the use of technology, afro-centric textiles and culture, focus on green ideas, waste management or recycling in the fashion industry, five firms have been recognised in the ‘Young Fashion Entrepreneurs Award’.
 
The awards, also known as MoBalo fashion awards, was in honor of late Moradeun Balogun, an exceptional fashion enthusiast and visionary, who was working to revolutionise Africa’s fashion industry through her work, FashionPro.
 
The awards, held at Live Awake Conference, themed, ‘Life of Meaning’, in Lagos, also recognised the use of fashion for advocacy or social impact in communities.
 
Founder, Immerse Coaching Company, Debola Deji-Kurunmi, said the conference proffered solutions to identify crisis in women through training and processes. Speaking on the topic ‘Woman, Know Thyself’, she debunked the myth that purpose must be exciting.  She also stressed the need to seek knowledge from survivors, professionals and God’s help.
   
Founder, Katie Wang Company, Olori Boye-Ajayi noted that collaboration was key to longevity, emphasising that the process of growth can be painful but rewarding.
 
She went on to encourage women in the growth stage to gradually go through the process and involve someone who has gone through similar experience.
 
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Aymie Staffing Solutions, Elizabeth Ajetunmobi, said the ability to grow requires having systems in place. On raising children, she asked parents to focus on their strengths by uncovering their purpose and prepare them for the future.
 
CEO, CoachE’Squad Limited, Eziaha Bolaji-Olojo called on women to delegate duties with clarity in the job roles for adequate productivity and have an effective feedback system. CEO, Midridge International, Abiola Adediran, noted that most women-owned businesses were stunted because they have been built around the founders. She added that in building global businesses, structures and systems need to be independent of the founder and this involves being deliberate in hiring and training of staff. She noted that lack of structure, in terms of cash flow, recruitment, managing employees or bookkeeping is the major cause of business frustrations and urged women to invest their funds in order to build institutions of value.
 
CEO, Smart Stewards, Sola Adesakin, who taught the Money Masterclass session, showed women how to make, manage and multiply money. 
   
She emphasised that one’s earnings is not a criteria for wealth, but the discipline to save and be accountable is.
     
The winners for The Young Fashion Entrepreneurs Award were: CEO Maple Street, Iyanu Ajayi; CEO Folabomi, Toluwaleye Odunsi; CEO Shapes and Colours, Omolara Teshola; CEO, BEEHC, Wumi Beyioku and CEO, Faidez Wears, Deborah Famuwagun.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .