Residents maintaining social distancing in Epe to receive welfare packages The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission (LSC), Mr. Lanre Mojola and General Manager, Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Dr. Dolapo Fasawe, have jointly urged Lagosians not to spread the COVID-19 virus by maintaining social distancing and carry out basic hygiene practices such as regular washing of hands. The call was made yesterday when the COVID-19 joint taskforce on enforcement of social distancing and gatherings paid a courtesy call on the Oloja of Epe, Oba Kamorudeen Ishola Animashaun to sensitize and distribute stimulus welfare packages to the community following the lockdown caused by the pandemic. According to Mojola, social distancing at this point is crucial to flatten the curve and break the cycle of transmission of the virus. He appealed that maintaining social distancing is key to safety of lives, as well as constant washing of hands with soap and water, use of alcohol-based hand sanitizers, cleaning of frequently touched surfaces, isolating self and call for help if symptoms of acute respiratory infection such as coughing, sneezing, sore throat and difficulty in breathing occurs. LASEPA GM, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe, noted that the joint taskforce would continue to enforce the lockdown guidelines until people understand and appreciate the importance of social distancing and self-isolation under the current global pandemic. The Oloja of Epe in his response expressed his gratitude to the state government and the taskforce team for the kind gesture and pledged the unflinching support of Epe to Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration in combating the pandemic. As part of the strategies to ensure the non- perishable packages reach beneficiaries, Community Development Association (CDA) leaders in the wards were involved in the distribution of more than 5000 packs of foodstuff to indigent residents of the community. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .