 Main entrance to Oyo State Secretariat during resumption of workers on Grade Level 13 and above in Ibadan… yesterday.  PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM  One of the three people tested positive for COVID-19 on at the weekend in Oyo State is dead. Governor Seyi Makinde, who disclosed this yesterday, said that the death occurred few hours after the result came back. He tweeted: “Sadly, one of the new COVID-19 cases announced yesterday passed away this morning. This brings the number of COVID-19 related deaths in the state to two. So, there are currently eight active cases in Oyo State.” Makinde also yesterday said that close to 60 per cent of the Coronavirus cases in Ibadan were linked to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. The governor, who disclosed this during a programme on Fresh 105.9 FM, Ibadan, tagged COVID-19 Situation Room, said that although it was clear that all manners of people go for treatment at UCH, a high percentage of the confirmed COVID-19 cases in the state came from the hospital. He said: “The three additional cases and the fatality that occurred in the state yesterday (Sunday) are all linked to UCH. Almost 60 per cent of the cases in Ibadan are linked to the place but I feel they have been a little bit defensive. I had reached out to the CMD. However, the governor, while speaking on the decision of the state government to return the 1,800 bags of rice donated by the Federal Government as palliative, said that Oyo State government would not use its money to destroy rice seized by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). He emphasised that the Customs would destroy it by itself. Meanwhile, in line with the directive of Governor Makinde, both public and civil servants on Grade Level 13 and above in the state workforce resumed work yesterday. It was observed that the screening at the entrance gate of the secretariat caused traffic as the workers were subjected to thorough scrutiny. While the majority of the civil servants put on face-masks, a small percentage could not adhere to the face-masks regulation. In another development, the Executive Chairman, Oyo State Universal Basic Education Board, Dr. Nureni Adeniran, has urged parents to ensure that their children take advantage of the ongoing home-school programme tagged, “Learning-on-air”, to keep them busy during their stay-at-home. Adeniran stated this after inspecting the construction work of two model schools in the state. said the programme was to engage school pupils during the stay-at-home in a bid to task their intelligence quotient. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .