 A commercial bus operating on Ikorodu road yesterday.<br />  According to the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of NSCDC, Kwara Command, Ayeni Olasunkanmi, the seven vehicles, fully loaded were stopped while passing through Ilorin for violating the coronavirus lockdown issued by the state government. Kwara had a week ago reviewed its earlier decision to allow vehicles to move on days earlier designated for the restocking of foods and other essentials, directing residents to instead patronize neighbourhood shops and observe all safety protocols. The review means that commercial and private vehicles are now barred from operating, except trucks and trailers conveying foodstuffs, medicines and other essential services. Speaking on the intercept of the vehicles coming from Lagos, Ayeni said: “The drivers and passengers were arrested for violating the stay-at-home restriction by the government. All arrested persons have been taken to Sango Magistrates’ Court, Ilorin, for proper prosecution.” Also, fully-loaded commercial vehicles were spotted yesterday at Iyana-Isolo area of Lagos moving towards Toyota-Oshodi area of the state. Commuter buses undertaking intra and inter-state trips in Lagos have continued to ply their business in defiance of the federal government’s lockdown order. The commercial buses, popularly known as Danfo, are still plying routes such as Ojota-Yaba, CMS-Ajah, and Mile 2-Oshodi among others. At Ojota bus stop, conductors are heard screaming routes like Ojuelegba, Oshodi, Yaba. The bus drivers usually drive through streets to evade the checkpoints on major roads. In some cases, they part with a sum of money at police checkpoints to continue their journey. Also, motorcycles and tricycles have made a gradual return to the roads, operating undisturbed especially from afternoon till evening in neighbourhoods and inner-city roads. It was also observed that owners of private vehicles are part of the scramble for passengers with many of them squeezing as many as seven persons into their cars.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .