Nadine Gonclaves and Tiago Ramos | Instagram Few weeks after going public with her 23-year-old lover, football star Neymar’s mother Nadine Gonclaves has dumped the younger man. It is gathered that the 52-year-old dumped Tiago Ramos after she found out that he has dated a number of men in the past. A report by The Sun has it that Tiago was allegedly dating Neymar’s personal chef Mauro before he started a relationship with Nadine. Reports also have it that he was romantically involved with a famous Brazilian actor and stand-up comedian called Carlinhos Maia. This coming barely two weeks when Neymar publicly showed his support for his mother’s relationship with Tiago. We reported that Nadine shared a loved up photo of herself with her new man on Instagram. In the photo, the lovebirds are seen in a garden and the caption reads: “The inexplicable cannot be explained, you live it.” Neymar showed his support for the couple with a comment. Commenting on the photo, the PSG superstar wrote: “Be happy mom love you.” But O Dia reporter Fabia Oliveira claimed the 52-year-old had been urged by her family to end the brief fling. Following the breakup, Tiago who is a model and part-time gamer is said to be back at home after leaving his now ex-girlfriend’s mansion. He has also posted a picture of him playing a game alongside his mother and sister on social media. Neymar and Tiago Ramos Although Tiago is only six years younger than Neymar, he says he has been a fan of the Paris Saint-Germain star and has been sending Neymar text messages before he met Nadine. Before he linked up with Nadine, he sent Neymar a message insisting that their paths would cross. His message from 2017 read: “Neymar you are fantastic, I don’t know how to explain the emotion of being a fan of a guy like you. “I see you playing and I”m very motivated, one day I hope to read this message with you, be your brother and play together. “I know that one day I will meet you, because I am a dreamy boy where I do not give up on my goals! “Stay with God, very successful and happy.”