UFO | Image: US Department of Defense (Pentagon) “Do aliens exist?” This is probably one of the most asked questions since humans began speculating about the existence of life outside of earth. Since the mid-20th century, active ongoing research has taken place to look for signs of extraterrestrial life or aliens, the preferred term in pop culture. On Monday, the United States Department of Defense released three declassified videos that show US Navy pilots encountering what appear to be unidentified flying objects (UFO). This videos once again begs the question on the existence of extraterrestrial life. The grainy black and white footage, which had been previously leaked, depicts unidentified flying objects encountered by the Navy during training flights.  Pentagon in a statement said that it was “releasing the videos in order to clear up any misconceptions by the public on whether or not the footage that has been circulating was real, or whether or not there is more to the videos.” One of the videos was shot in November 2004 and the other two in January 2015. Two of the videos were published by the New York Times in 2017. The other video was released by the To the Stars Academy of Arts and Science group, a media and private science organization. The statement continued: “After a thorough review, the department has determined that the authorized release of these unclassified videos does not reveal any sensitive capabilities or systems, and does not impinge on any subsequent investigations of military air space incursions by unidentified aerial phenomena.” In his reaction to the release of the videos, Sen. Harry Reid who helped fund the US government’s UFO investigations, said the Pentagon’s release of the videos “only scratches the surface” of what the government has on file.  But do Aliens really exist?
The search for extraterrestrial life has birthed projects such the Curiosity rover, a car-sized rover launched in 2011 to explore Mars. There is also the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) which monitors the galaxy for electromagnetic interstellar communications. The latter begs the question; what is the guarantee that aliens would transmit radio communications in the direction of Earth? And even if they do, what is the guarantee that the information communicated (by the aliens) could be interpreted by humans. In November 2011, the White House released an official response to two petitions asking the U.S. government to acknowledge formally that aliens have visited Earth and to disclose any intentional withholding of government interactions with extraterrestrial beings. According to the response; “The U.S. government has no evidence that any life exists outside our planet, or that an extraterrestrial presence has contacted or engaged any member of the human race.” While we may never be certain about the existence of life outside of earth, we can satisfy our curiosity with the concept of extraterrestrial life provided hundreds of science fiction novels and films such as the Star Wars franchise, Avatar, Men In Black, Justice League and many more. 