President Muhammadu Buhari will at 7 pm broadcast to the nation as the stay-at-home directive caused by the coronavirus outbreak expires on Monday. This is coming amidst concerns of the general economic downturn as citizens continue to lament the lockdown on the advice of the Presidential task force to monitor the development of COVID- 19 pandemic disease across the country. President Buhari had on Friday, met with the members of the Presidential Task Force, led by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. Buhari, in a tweet, said the meeting which held at the State House with members of the task force was on the national response to the disease. The SGF had earlier said the task force would meet with Buhari to review the lockdown order in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory. The President, who had, on March 29, ordered the lockdown for an initial period of 14 days, did not provide any indication on whether or not the lockdown would be extended. However, a statement signed by Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, on Monday, enjoined Television, radio and other electronic media outlets to hook up to the network services of the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) respectively for the broadcast. Despite public outcry resulting from the movement restrictions across the globe, President Buhari last Saturday pleaded with Nigerians to continue to stay at home and abide by directives were in place. He said his government was working to provide sundry palliatives to cushion the effect of the lockdown following the pandemic in the country. The President, however, was again not categorical on when the lockdown will be lifted, saying until otherwise declared by those he described as “scientific advisers.” “The freedoms we ask you to willingly forsake today will only last as long as our scientific advisers declare they are necessary. But they are essential – world over – to halt and defeat the spread of this virus,” the President said in a statement on Saturday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .