Jigawa ex-gov under surveillance after attending burial
A Kaduna-based scientist, Professor Ayodele Israel Adeleye, yesterday insisted that he had found a solution to the deadly COVID-19 pandemic, urging the Federal Government to produce five victims for free treatment to further prove his claim. The former lecturer with the Department of Microbiology, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, (ABUTH), Zaria said there was a three-day window for the coronavirus cure discovery, just as he assured that if adopted, the current lockdown world over due to the scourge would be history. The parasitologist told reporters: “If the government brings in five people with COVID-19, I will treat them for free, right in front of your cameras.” Adeleye, who resigned from the ABU to pursue private research projects in medical sciences, assured Nigerians that his “COVID-19 cure is real and the next after God in terms effectiveness.” He insisted that it takes between three and five days to cure the patient completely of the disease. “If the world adopts my cure, the lockdown in the world will end,” the don added. On the success of his clinical trial for the cure, he said since animals don’t contract COVID-19, he could not test the efficacy on them, but explained that already, five persons had been treated successfully. His words: “Animals are not susceptible to COVID-19. The only luck we have is that someone who had COVID-19 was brought to us and cured. “About five people, including my former students who knew me with research, have been calling and asking if I have something to cure COVID-19. “One of the patients was having breathing problems already and he took the treatment. In 10 minutes he was already getting better. “We told him that this is new, we cannot assure you how long it will give you immunity, so stay quarantined and keep social distancing.” Meanwhile, erstwhile Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido, has been placed under evaluation for suspected contraction of the virus after his close contact with the Kano index case. A member of Kano State Rapid Response Team on COVID-19 (name withheld), who confirmed the development, explained that available data revealed that the ex-governor was among the dignitaries that attended the a funeral with the 75-year old victim currently in an isolation centre. The source declared that Lamido had responded to official invitation to send his sample for test. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .