The Delta government has imposed a dusk to dawn curfew to track those that came in contact with the three confirmed COVID-19 victims in the state. In a statewide broadcast yesterday in Asaba, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa also extended by 14 days the lockdown to check the spread of the disease. Regretting the action of those who flouted the stay-at-home order in the first instance, he was quick to add that the sacrifice was in the interest of all. His words: “On April 7, we had our index case of COVID-19 in Delta State, which was the seventh day of the lockdown. Since then, three cases have thus far been identified in the state. Unfortunately, we lost one of the victims, who presented himself very late at our Oghara isolation centre.
 
“Since then, 70 contacts have been identified, 46 of them have actually been reached, and we are still doing our best to get the remaining 24 persons. Some of these persons have been isolated in their homes. “But some other persons are currently being isolated in the three in the three centres across the state. We have two cases that are active. One is being managed at the Delta State University, Oghara centre, and the other being managed at our Infectious Disease Centre at Asaba. Both persons are doing very well.” The governor added: “Having taking cognisance of the high spread of the disease nationally and the need to ease the process of contact tracing, the further stay-at-home order has become necessary for the safety of our people, and to enable us to track, identify, isolate and test all contacts. “And by the powers vested on me in line with the Quarantine Act and the subsequent Infectious Disease Regulation 2020, I hereby extend the stay-at-home order for another two weeks.” Okowa further held: “We do know that this will cause some pains for our people, but this is for the public good and for the interest of our health. And I want to urge all Deltans to please observe the stay-at-home order. We believe that in the next two weeks, we would be able to track all contacts, identify all possible cases and be able to take the needed actions, and then, we would be able to use this next opportunity to also produce enough quantity of facemasks for our people. “It is our hope that we would be able to return to duty thereafter praying to God that the cases in Nigeria will not escalate above what we have at the moment.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .