Fayemi orders release of 30 prisoners in Ado-Ekiti correctional centre 
The Ekiti State Government yesterday said that the 29-year-old woman, who was the third case of COVID-19 in the state, had died. The woman passed on at the Intensive Care Unit of Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti, yesterday. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mojisola Yaya-Kolade, who confirmed this in Ado-Ekiti at a press conference, said the woman died around 6.58 a.m. in the morning Yaya-Kolade, who regretted that the late patient infected a 45-year-old medical doctor, who had now been identified as the fourth case by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, said: “The woman showed signs of stability on Monday, but unfortunately, her condition deteriorated yesterday and we lost her at exactly 6.58 a.m. yesterday (Wednesday).” She said the state would take precaution and comply with the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) safety rules on the burial. She said that FETHI, where the patient died, had been sanitised and cleaned up since the woman was hospitalised, urging the patients and members of the public not to stigmatise the hospital or afraid of patronising it. Meanwhile, as part of measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 in Ekiti State, Governor Kayode Fayemi has ordered the release of 30 prisoners in the Ado-Ekiti Correctional Centre. The state’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Olawale Fapohunda, who disclosed this in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said that Fayemi had also directed that the released individuals should immediately be listed as vulnerable persons on the database of beneficiaries of the Ekiti State COVID-19 palliative programme. Fapohunda explained that the release of the prisoners was in recognition of danger inherent in the spread of COVID-19 in the Ado-Ekiti correctional facility and that the exercise would be a continuous one until the population is reduced to manageable numbers. The commissioner also said that all the released individuals went through a rigorous process of screening.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .