The Federal Government says it has been successful with the supply of essential commodities nationwide despite the restriction of movement as a result of the Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19) across the country. The Minister of Industry Trade and Investment, Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, disclosed this in Abuja after receiving briefs from the Manager, Emergency Operation Centre, Battah Ndirpaya Represented by the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo, Adebayo said that the Committee on Sustainable Production and Delivery of Essential Commodities During COVID-19 Pandemic through the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) in the Ministry received and resolved a total of 32 cases of complaints on challenges being faced in the effective supply/delivery of essential commodities across the country. In a statement signed by the Deputy Director, Press, Ibrahim Haruna and obtained by The Guardian in Abuja, the Minister noted that out of the 32 cases received and resolved, 26.7 per cent involved delivery of food items, 40 per cent was issues concerning availability and delivery of other essential items while 33.3 per cent of the complaints were manufacturing related cases. He also explained that out of the 32 incidences received and resolved by the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) 27 per cent involved delivery of food items, 40 per cent were on essential items while 33 per cent were on logistics and manufacturing items. A breakdown of the cases by geo-political zones reveals that 27 per cent are from the North-Central, 24 per cent from the South- East, 31 per cent from the South-West while 17 per cent are from the South-South region. He stressed: “The summary of cases received and resolved by geo-political Zones are as follows: North-West, 13.7 per cent of the cases pertained to the delivery of essential items, while 10.3 per cent were Manufacturing cases; 10.3 per cent involved Manufacturing cases in the South East; 6.8 per cent involved the delivery of food items in the South West, 10.3 per cent involved the delivery of essential items while another 10.3 per cent were Manufacturing cases; 6.8 per cent involved the delivery of food items in South-South while 10.3 per cent pertained to the delivery of essential items and 3.4 per cent of the cases in that Zone were manufacturing cases” The Minister further revealed, ‘’The summary of cases received and resolved by category is 6.8 per cent in the North-Central which were Logistics associated, 3.4 per cent were manufacturing related, 3.4 per cent cases were in Retail while13.7 per cent were Market Intelligence cases adding that 13.7 per cent of the cases recorded in the South East were logistics related while 10.3 per cent were in manufacturing. 24.1 per cent cases in the South West were logistics while 6.8 per cent were manufacturing related. 10.3 per cent of cases recorded from the South-South were Logistics, 3.4 per cent were in Manufacturing while another 3.4 per cent were Market Intelligence cases.” He commended the security agencies for their support and appealed to the State Governors to direct their Ministries of Trade and Industry or any relevant agencies to collaborate with the Security Agencies or Special Task Force on COVID-19 to facilitate easy movement and distribution of food products and other essential commodities as approved by President Muhammadu Buhari.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .