 Compensation Graphic  Findings by TechCabal in the Nigerian Women in Tech Report, powered by the UK-Nigeria Tech Hub, which confirmed this, informed that more than 65 per cent of the female STEM university students surveyed applied for those courses as a result of their passion and interests as against being pressured by their parents to do so or because it was the only available option. The report, which examined the distribution and level of involvement of women in Nigeria’s technology and STEM fields, noted that 59 per cent of the survey respondents admit to facing challenges in their course of study, however, over 75 per cent of the same respondents said that the challenges are not gender-related. However, despite the challenges faced, 54 per cent of them are happily studying the course. Furthermore, the majority of the founders surveyed, about 55.6 per cent said that the challenges they faced were gender-based while many of the developers surveyed didn’t feel this way. 83 per cent of the latter felt that their challenges weren’t gender-based. According to the report, the number and percentage of female developers in the tech companies we surveyed are increasing with each passing year, which shows that there is a growing interest in women participation in the tech field. Compensation Graphic  The report, which is available for free download, looks at the gaps that exist in women participation, challenges and highlight recommendations for improvement. It also puts the spotlight on 21 women entrepreneurs, c-suite executives and seven women developers working in the Nigerian technology industry. According to the Chief Executive Officer at Big Cabal Media, the parent company of TechCabal, Tomiwa Aladekomo, said: “Notwithstanding decades of progress towards workplace equality, women remain underrepresented in Nigeria’s technology workforce. We’ve embarked on this report to showcase the arena where women in technology play across Nigeria, and the contribution to the big picture when we look at it through the lens of STEM.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .