To address constraints to accessing certain value-chain offerings, especially in the oil and gas services industry, Shawcor Pipeline Products International BV has appointed Field Joint Coating Limited (FJCL) as its sole distributor in Nigeria. Shawcor is a world leading integrated energy services company working in a variety of industries, including oil & gas, petrochemicals, industrial, electrical, electronic, automotive and communications with focus on keeping construction projects and operations running smoothly and to specification through proprietary, technology-based products, services and solutions. In response to demand for premium quality products and services in the Nigerian Pipeline technology markets, FJCL and CANUSA-CPS pipe-coating solutions will be supplied from FJCL operational Base located at KM2, Eleme-Onne Road, Port Harcourt, Nigeria. The coating solutions include CANUSA-CPS Visco-Elastic technologies, CANUSA-CPS Liquid Epoxy Coatings, CANUSA-CPS Mechanical Protection Systems and CANUSA-CPS Heat Shrink Sleeves. With this appointment, Shawcor Pipeline Products International BV is demonstrating its commitment to the Nigerian Pipeline market with the new partnership. Speaking on the partnership, the firm expressed great optimism in the domestic Nigerian market saying the industry will benefit immensely from the value they are bringing. Also speaking, Manager, Business Development, FJCL, Ngo Dennis Awulabah, said her company is committed to providing world-standard pipeline Field Joint Coating application solutions, adding that having been appointed as authorized Distributor of Shawcor pipeline products and services in Nigeria, pipeline integrity will be better assured while procurement cycles would be shortened. Field Joint Coating Limited is a Nigerian company with proven competence and performance in offshore and Onshore pipeline coating application services and products. Their services extend to NNPC, IOCs and EPC Companies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .