Nigerian Government on Friday said it has not agreed to provide free electricity for two months. “NO DECISION has been taken by the Federal Government to provide Nigerians with FREE ELECTRICITY for 2 months,” the Ministry of Power tweeted. There have been claims earlier this week that the Nigerian government and the electricity distribution companies have “provide” Nigerians two months of free electricity. The ministry said when such agreement is reached with necessary agencies it would be “officially” announced. “Be rest assured that FG is exploring ways to ameliorate any hardship on Nigerians,” the ministry added. Although there are plans, the electricity distribution companies announced on Wednesday stated that modalities for the free power would be worked on and made public in due course. “We hereby align ourselves with the efforts of the National Assembly and the Federal Executive to mitigate the hardships that are currently being borne by our customers and other citizens all over the country,” Director, Research and Advocacy, Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED), Sunday Oduntan, said. “We are also completely aligned with the plans to ensure palliative measures, including free electricity supply to all Nigerians for two months, to make life easier, during the lockdown period,” he added. Oduntan said the “details of implementation to come soon.” Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila had earlier met with the Minister of Power, Sale Mamman and the management of National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) following an outcry by Nigerians on better electricity supply especially during the stay-at-home order by the Federal Government to curb the spread of COVID-19. While announcing the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun State and Abuja, President Buhari said his government will explore options to help citizens go through the stay-at-home phase while the country continues to fight coronavirus. The power ministry, however, assured Nigerians that the government is “exploring ways to ameliorate any hardship on Nigerians.”
[ad To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .