 The pregnant woman being taken to the hospital on Friday night by the RRS  In a post on its Twitter page yesterday, the police outfit wrote: “At about 3:00 a.m. on Friday, our officers on normal patrol of their beat around Ikoyi came across a man in distress. He was accosted and questioned where he was heading to that early during a lockdown. The man impatiently blurted out that his wife was in labour and that he had been looking for vehicle for some time to no avail and he had no means of getting her to the hospital. He got into our vehicle and was rushed down to his home. “Both man and wife were immediately taken to the hospital in Obalende. Our officers took time out today (Sunday) to check the family at their residence having been off duty yesterday. Behold, the wife had been delivered of a beautiful baby girl. Both mother and child are doing well.” Meanwhile, a police officer has been accused of allegedly forcefully collecting N120,000 from a woman suspected to have violated the COVID-19 lockdown order in the Delta State. The Delta State governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, had imposed a total lockdown across the state since April 1. Since the lockdown started, there have been cases of extortion, brutality and killing of innocent citizens leveled against security forces, especially the Nigeria Police Force, who were largely empowered to enforce the stay-at-home directive. It was gathered that the erring police Inspector, simply identified as Inspector Okosun, is attached to the Quick Response Unit of the Delta State Police Command. He allegedly extorted N120,000 from one Mrs. Nwabuabo Obiajulu on Friday, April 17 at about 12noon at Asagba Police Station near Ogwashi-Uku in Delta. Obiajulu told newsmen that she had sent her son, Utulu Chukwuweiki, with her car to buy petrol from a filling station to power their generating set. Chukwuweiki was on his way to deliver the errand when a team of police patrol, led by Okosun in a blue Toyota Hilux blocked him at NEPA junction. Unsure of the identity of his assailants, whom she said were not in uniform, the young man manoeuvred his way out of the junction while the occupants of the Hilux gave him a hot chase. According to Obiajulu, when the police caught up with her son, he was arrested and “charged” for breaking the lockdown order, of which she was asked to cough up N300,000 for bail. She added that after much pleas, the police team eventually collected N120,000 before she was let off the hook. Reacting to the allegation, Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command, Muhammed Inuwa, promised to investigate and flush out such bag eggs in his command. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .