In view of the gist going around, longstanding rivals, Jude M.I Abaga and Olanrewaju Ogunmefun David, better known as Vector Da Viper, have been reunited by DMW act, Mayorkun in his rave making hit Geng tagged Naija remix. Mayorkun had during the week hinted about the seasoned MCs coming together alongside the duo of Sinzu and YCEE, who completed the quartet for the remix of sunny rap affair that has become one of the biggest songs of 2020, if not the biggest. The EP, as revealed by the artiste, dropped yesterday. While Sinzu and YCEE are known for their braggadocio and smooth delivery, there’s no doubting, however, that most ears will be on M.I and Vector’s verses, as their fans no doubt, will be eager to judge who had the better verse. There is no doubting of the fact, Mayorkun is moving very intentional about this song by milking it wholesomely and making it an EP. Made up of four songs, the three new songs that complement, Naija remix, which was earlier mentioned, include the Geng Africa remix, and the Geng UK remix. While the Geng Africa remix features Kwesi Arthur, Riky Rick, Rayvanny and Innoss B, the Geng UK remix will have British rapper and songwriter Thyra Oji, better known by her stage name Ms. Banks and Russ, an American rapper, singer, songwriter, author and record producer. Both M.I and Vector have had sour relationship in the last one year, and had diss one another in their records. Many believed that the long-term beef between both lyricists has had a positive effect in the country rap music by reviving it. Also, some people are of the opinion that it has given M.I the attention he needed to reaffirm his status as the king of rap in Africa. M.I dropped his diss song titled The Viper and it started trending on social media for hours. This Osayimwen Osahon George, a journalist and a PhD student at the University of Ibadan noted is a kind of unprecedented publicity that politicians even fail to get after paying millions of naira. According to Osayimwen, Vector’s other attacks on M.I also gained serious traction online. He noted that both M.I and Vector are off the market but they have much quality to offer the Nigerian music industry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .