 Representative of Lagos State Governor, Dr. Frederic Oladeinde; member, Oversea Chinese Association in Nigeria, Lou Irug Koon; Chairlady, Chinese Association in Nigeria, Zhou Jun; Platform Manager, Transsion Holdings, Mr. Lan Pan, and Operation Manager, Transsion Holdings, Mr. Alpha Tang during the donation from Chinese Community in Lagos in collaboration with Africamed supporting Lagos State Government’s fight against Coronavirus Pandemic.  A statement yesterday by the Consul General of the People’s Republic of China in Lagos, Chu Maoming, said the Consulate and the local Chinese community mobilised the donations, adding that the process was implemented smoothly. The donations include 2, 000 pieces of thermometer worth N120m by the Consulate General; cheque donation of N35.38m and hand sanitisers worth N1.5m by the Overseas Chinese Association in Lagos; 2, 000 masks, 50 hand sanitisers, 100 coverall clothing, 2, 000 gloves and one ventilator jointly worth N11.5m by the AfricaMed Group; 10, 000 masks worth N1.5m by Tecno Group; one ambulance worth N20m, 20, 000 masks worth N5.5m and cheque donation of N20m by Choice International; and cheque donation of N90m by the Chinese Entrepreneurs Community in Lagos. Maoming, who expressed hope that Lagos would win the battle against COVID-19, added that Consulate General and Chinese community in Lagos would continue to help the country. “Since the outbreak of COVID-19 in Nigeria, the Lagos State government has been taking concrete and effective measures in fighting the pandemic. We highly appreciate the great efforts made by the Lagos State government in safeguarding heath and safety of its people and the Chinese in greater Lagos area…” “China and Nigeria are members of a community with a shared future. Now faced with the COVID-19 pandemic, China and Nigeria are again tiding over difficulties hand in hand. We will never forget the support from the Lagos State government during our most difficult times and it is only natural to help Lagos State fight the pandemic in light of our friendship and cooperation,” the statement read.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .