Amber Heard and Johnny Depp | Credit: John Phillips (Getty) American actor Johnny Depp and his ex-wife Amber Heard had a nasty fight in March 2015 that resulted in Depp having a severed finger. The fight along with the injury is at the centre of a series of legal battles in the wake of the couple’s divorce in 2016. In a video obtained by Daily Mail, Depp details the violent fight that left him with a permanently damaged finger. The video was obtained from Depp‘s lawsuit against his former lawyer, who he says wrongly collected millions of dollars in fees. The incident was brought up in this lawsuit because that lawyer had prepared a post-nup agreement that Amber Heard was allegedly asked to sign the night before the fight. The “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory” actor said he had to lie about the cause of the injury to protect Heard. “Basically I had a pretty nasty injury that I actually had to protect her at the time,” Depp says in the video. “And so I said that it was caught in the door in these huge accordion doors at this house, that wasn’t the case at all. “She smashed, she threw a vodka bottle at me and my, my hand was resting on the marble of the bar like that. “The first bottle went whoosh just past my ear. And the second one was a larger bottle and she threw it from about this distance and it smashed into the bar, which, this finger who I now call little Richard, was, the tip of the finger was severed and all the bone in here was completely shattered.” Read More:
Johnny Depp Sues The Sun UK For Branding Him A “Wife-Beater” Depp continued; “I mean, it looked like Vesuvius and then I got infections. ‘I ended up with MRSA twice, so it was very complicated. I was trying to just get the finger back, you know. And then deal with the insanity of having had my finger chopped off by this woman that I was married to.” Meanwhile, Heard has claimed that Depp inflicted the injury on himself while smashing a phone against the wall. To this Depp responds, “She says that I did it myself, yeah, By punching a wall.” “I tell you, I’d like to see the reactions from scientists, I mean, physicians, who are familiar with this sort of trauma, this sort of thing, because I’d love to see her explain how someone hits a wall and if they put their fist through it, its dry wall or something.” The violent incident took place a month after the pair were married and while Depp was filming the fifth instalment of the Pirates of Caribbean film franchise in Australia. Johnny Depp and Amber Heard met on the set of The Rum Diary back in 2011, married four years later – but split in May 2016. 