An airline has pledged to compensate passengers with up to N3.3 million (£7,300) if they test positive for coronavirus after taking a flight regardless of where they think they caught it. Vietjet, which is based in Vietnam, announced that it would be making the payouts as part of its new ‘Sky COVID Care Insurance’ policy and that it would apply to travellers on its domestic services. Vietnam as at Wednesday had a total of 218 cases, with 155 active, 63 recovered and zero death. The lump sum to the infected, which has to be claimed within 30 days of the flight, is being offered to all eligible passengers for free regardless of their age or nationality. The policy is available for those taking flights between March 23 and June 30, 2020, with payouts ranging from £736 or $846 to £7,359 or $8,465. Vietjet said: “With the insurance, passengers are eligible for insurance coverage and benefits from Vietjet within 30 days starting at 00:01 of the flight date, regardless of how passengers are infected with the disease. “To be eligible for insurance coverage, passengers need to provide all information in accordance with Vietjet’s terms and conditions when purchasing tickets and using aviation services – and comply with all regulations on disease prevention and control of Vietjet, the Vietnam Ministry of Health and authorities.” According to the airline, it already has tens of billions of Vietnamese dong set aside for paying out premiums. Ineligible passengers include those who have already tested positive for Covid-19 or anybody who has breached safety regulations, such as travel bans, outlined by the Vietnamese Ministry of Health. People who have epilepsy or mental illness also aren’t eligible. All passengers must fill out a form declaring they are healthy before boarding. The airline added: “The purpose is to bring passengers assurance when flying on modern and comfortable aircraft with young and professional cabin crews. “The health safety of passengers and cabin crews are protected at the highest level against all risks of disease. The difficulties and the pandemic will soon be over. In a world full of uncertainties, Vietjet desires to bring humane values, assurance to passengers and to the community.” To make a claim, passengers have to fill out a form on the Vietjet website and provide proof that they have tested positive for the virus and that they have received treatment for it. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .