Edo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, yesterday expressed sadness over the death of a patient suspected to be suffering from COVID-19 in the state. Okundia, who described the death as an unfortunate situation, said: “We had an unfortunate situation of a 57-year-old police officer that passed on yesterday. The story is not very clear how he got the infection but he developed some illnesses. “Initially, there was no evidence of suspicion for Coronavirus disease but when the symptoms started getting worse, he was treated at the police clinic. “And about two days before his death, our surveillance team were called to have a look and it was in that process they took the sample and sent it to the laboratory while he continued with his drugs. He was placed on self-isolation, but, however, the result came out and it was positive. “It is really unfortunate and the result came after the man had died.” Meanwhile, an epidemiologist in Akwa Ibom State, Dr. Aniekeme Uwah, yesterday said that the state had so far collected 53 samples from suspected COVID-19 cases. Nine, according to him, tested positive, three recovered and discharged, one dead and five active cases still in the isolation unit of Ibom Specialty Hospital. “We have challenges collecting samples. However, so far, we have collected 53 samples but with only nine confirmed cases,” he said. Uwah, who spoke on “Contact Tracing: Key processes and challenges from the Akwa Ibom experience”, said the state had the challenge of unavailability/limited number of sample test kits and the stress of an eight-hour drive to Ebonyi for the test. However, for the sake of giving out accurate variable information by newsmen in Akwa Ibom State on COVID-19, a one-day workshop intensive training was organised for journalists in the state yesterday. The workshop was organised by the state Ministry of Information in collaboration with the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) at the Ibom Specialty Hospital (ISH), Uyo. The state’s Commissioner for Information and Communications, Mr. Charles Udoh, while declaring the workshop open, said the training was arranged to offer an opportunity for doctors to acquaint journalists with professional knowledge on Coronavirus and the technical details necessary for effective reportage on the COVID-19 pandemic. Udoh, represented by the state’s Director of Information, Mr. James Edet, said that the intention of the state government was to bring journalists to a better understanding of information management about COVID-19. In his remarks, the state Chairman of the NMA, Dr. Nsikak Nyoyoko, considered the training for journalists as the only way to accord impact on the ongoing lockdown policy of the state government. “The intention is to empower media men to inform the public right. The lockdown would not make impact if education of our people is lacking. The lockdown is for people to stay away from each other, not just to stay at home,” he said. Also, Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Akwa Ibom State Council, Mr. Amos Etuk, said the training workshop was strategic, as it has opened a new chapter towards a stronger information management on COVID-19. He pledged the union’s commitment to continue to partner the state government in the fight against the virus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .