• Gov says savings to be used for developmental projects
• Ekiti NMA seeks establishment of more isolation centres
• Demands domestication of new insurance, hazard allowance for members Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has directed that the salaries of all political appointees in the state, including himself and his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, be slashed by 50 per cent with immediate effect. He said that savings from this pay cut would be channelled into the execution and completion of developmental projects in the state, as hitherto planned. The state’s Commissioner for Information and Value Orientation, Muyiwa Olumilua, who disclosed this in a statement in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said the salary cut would affect the governor, his deputy and all political appointees down the line. He, however, said that salaries of civil servants would not be affected by this directive, and shall maintain status quo. “As a responsive and responsible government, the Fayemi-led administration has taken stock of our financial situation, vis-a-vis our constantly decreasing receipts from the Federation Account, as well as our dwindling internally-generated revenue (IGR), and has been forced to wake up to the current realities of our fiscal position. “In the light of the foregoing, His Excellency, Governor John Kayode Fayemi has directed that salaries of all political appointees in the state be slashed by 50 per cent with immediate effect. “This sacrifice is for the welfare of the Ekiti people, which should take pre-eminence over and above all other considerations. “Your patriotism, patience and co-operation is highly appreciated at all times,” the statement said. In another development, the Coalition of Health Professional Associations and Unions yesterday urged immediate decentralisation of the isolation centre built in Ado-Ekiti as part of the efforts to win the war against Coronavirus spread in Ekiti State. The workers said the upsurge in the number of active cases at the 10-bed isolation centre was terrifying and there was urgent need to establish more centres at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti and the Federal Teaching Hospital, Ido-Ekiti as precautionary measures. The health workers, therefore, appealed to Governor Kayode Fayemi to domesticate the agreement reached by their colleagues with the Federal Government on payment of new hazard allowance and insurance cover for medical workers to serve as morale booster at this precarious time. A statement by the Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Ekiti State Chapter, Dr. Tunji Omotayo, said: “We salute the government for upgrading the facilities at the state isolation centre, but urgent efforts are needed to provide additional isolation centres in the tertiary health institutions in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .