 WASHINGTON, DC – APRIL 13: Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases speaks as President Donald Trump listens during the daily briefing of the White House Coronavirus Task Force at the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House April 13, 2020 in Washington, DC. On Monday President Trump tweeted that he will be the one to make the decision to re-open the states in conjunction with the Governors and input from others.   Alex Wong/Getty Images/AFP  Rumours that Fauci could get the axe — as a vocal group of Trump’s right-wing supporters want — accelerated on Sunday when the president retweeted criticism of the doctor with the hashtag #FireFauci. “This media chatter is ridiculous – President Trump is not firing Dr Fauci,” White House spokesman Hogan Gidley said in a statement. “Dr Fauci has been and remains a trusted advisor to President Trump.” Fauci is widely considered one of the most trusted faces in the Trump administration’s fight against the pandemic. As a longtime expert in similar health crises, Fauci is winning plaudits for his no-nonsense and apolitical interviews with the media. However, his consistent push for strict social distancing and shutting down of much economic activity has sparked resistance from Republicans who believe the COVID-19 crisis is overblown and worry that the paralyzed economy will hurt Trump’s reelection chances. Conspiracy theories spread widely on social media suggest that Fauci is even a Democratic plant. Gidley said that the purpose of Trump’s retweet was simply to defend himself against “media attempts to maliciously push a falsehood” about the government’s alleged slow response to the pandemic. “It was Democrats and the media who ignored Coronavirus,” Gidley said. Trump, by contrast, took “bold decisive action to save American lives by cutting off travel from China and from Europe.” Gidley did not directly explain the president’s decision to include the #FireFauci hashtag. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .