Renown critic of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, Buba Galadima and Secretary-General of Northern Elders’ Forum (NEF), Hakeem Baba-Hammed have blamed the Federal Government over the spread of COVID-19 in Nigeria. Galadima spoke in a radio interview in Kaduna, saying the devastating effect of Coronavirus on the country would have been averted, if Government had taken preventive measures, when the disease first broke out in China and other countries abroad. Galadima, who spoke in Hausa, said: “The government should have since taken preventive measures and not just now. But may Almighty Allah protect us… If government is not doing the right thing, they will favour a situation in which a calf will turn into a big cow. Government was complacent on the issue of COVID-19, as the story of deaths from countries overseas, was enough warning.” He also faulted the manner government locked down communities, where many people have nothing to eat, saying it was a wrong and inhuman approach. “Now that civil servants are working from home, they should be given half salary and the other half given to people to feed. Civil servants can only work, when the people are alive. So, we must all be our brothers’ keepers.” Baba-Ahmed criticised the alleged N20, 000 palliative, which he said was given to select Nigerians by the Federal Government. He reminded the Buhari-led administration that COVID-19 pandemic was not a child’s play, but a national emergency, which required a change of tactics by the Federal and state governments. Speaking in an interview on Radio France International, Hausa Service, Baba-Ahmed said it was irrational on government’s part to confine people to their homes without adequately preparing the mode of survival. “This curfew imposed on people who are extremely poor, need a second look. We are calling on government to revisit the matter… The government should use public funds and the money it got from donations to assist the people,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .