Halle choked on a fig while filming the sex scene. | Mirro When the name Halle Berry is mentioned, what pops us for many is the sexy Oscar-award winning actress that wows fans with her talent. What many don’t know is that behind the scenes, the actress makes her mistakes just like the rest of the world. The 53-year-old Berry was part of the “James Bond” franchise was praised for her role in the “Die Another Day” installment and she has not told the story of how she almost died during filming. Berry recalls that she owes her life to 66-year-old life Pierce Brosnan who came to her aid during a sex scene. In a chat with US talk show host Jimmy Fallon, the actress revealed that the Irish actor had to give her the Heimlich Manoeuvre as she choked on a fig. Berry said: “I was supposed to be all sexy, trying to seduce him with a fig, and then I end up choking on it and he had to get up and do the Heimlich. “James Bond knows how to Heimlich! “He was there for me, he will always be one of my favourite people in the whole world.” Halle was portraying Jinx, Bond’s fellow sleuth and love interest who famously battles it out with Rosamund Pike in the film. Veteran Bond producer Barbara Broccoli recently told that Jinx has such a hit with fans the studio had planned a spinoff film with Halle in the lead. She described to Variety being “incensed” over reluctance to grant the idea an £80 million. Barbara went on to confront the question of bringing Bond’s attitudes toward women into the modern day. “Bond’s been evolving along with all the other men in the world,” she reckoned, “Some men have just gotten there more quickly than others.” We recently reported that Berry was under fire for letting her son Maceo-Robert wear high heels. The “Monster’s Ball” star had shared a video of her little boy Maceo-Robert dancing around wearing a pair of her shoes as they tried to keep themselves amused during the lockdown. Soon after, fans and trolls began to drop comments on the post with many negative. A troll even questioned her child’s gender Halle responded: “Well it’s a he and he is having a ball. Tryna cope the best he can. Laughter helps a lot right now!”