About 10 persons have been killed in Bassa town of Bassa local government area of Plateau State on Wednesday night by unknown gunmen. On Tuesday night, the same local government was attacked in which three persons were killed and many others injured. This attack is coming barely two weeks after two soldiers attached to Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and two other persons were killed in Katummai village of same Bassa local council. When contacted, the Plateau State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Simon Ubah Ogaba, confirmed the attacks but said he would get back to the reporter on the death toll, which he was yet to do as at press time yesterday. President of the Irigwe Development Association (IDA) of Bassa council, Sunday Abdu, bemoaned the spate of attacks in the area, saying they are helpless in the face of the incessant attacks and killings in this difficult time of coronavirus pandemic. “That is what is happening; attacks and more attacks. They killed three persons on Tuesday night and killed seven persons again on Wednesday night,” he lamented. A resident who vowed not to leave his compound close to where the incident happened, said he is preparing for them to come next time and face the full wrath of his tradition. Angered by the incident, the Senator representing Plateau North Constituency, Senator Istifanus Gyang, said he was saddened over the attacks. In a statement yesterday by his Special Adviser, Media and Protocol, Musa Ibrahim Ashoms, Gyang, who is the Deputy Chairman, Senate Committee on Defence, said it is sad and disturbing that while all nations, Nigeria inclusive, are battling to overcome the plague of coronavirus, killer bandits are still in the habit of attacking helpless communities of Plateau North Senatorial District. He stated that it is necessary for the police and Operation Safe Haven to rise up to their primary responsibility of securing the lives of citizens both in the cities and rural areas. He asserted that the lives of rural dwellers matter as much as those in urban areas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .