The one question on the lips of many Nigerians is “Did Toyin Abraham replace Funke Akindele in the coronavirus campaign by NCDC?” This is coming off the heels of a new tweet by the Nigeria Centre for Disease control showing Nollywood actress Toyin Abraham explaining in Yoruba how to protect oneself from the virus. “In Yoruba language, actress
@toyin_abraham1 talks about how to protect yourself and prevent the spread of #COVID19 Please watch, download and share with your family and loved ones. This video is in partnership with
@UN_Nigeria
@UNDPNigeria”, NCDC tweeted. Recall earlier in the month, Funke Akindele’s violation of the federal government’s ban on social gatherings led to her being stripped off a similar awareness campaign by Dettol in conjunction with the NCDC. Following this incident, Dettol Nigeria released an official statement via its Twitter page, noting that it “does not condone any breach of the guidelines on Covid-19.” The company also noted that Funke Akindele was not a brand ambassador for NCDC. “We have been made aware through social media that Funke Akindele recently, acting in her personal capacity, had a celebration which is against the caution to the public on social distancing during the covid-19 pandemic. “The NCDC partnered with Dettol on a public service message to educate our communities about preventive measures against COVID-19. Funke is not a brand ambassador of the NCDC. “As a responsible organization and brand Dettol does not condone any breach of the guidelines on Covid-19. As an organization, we are concerned at the turn of events. We will continue to support NCDC and the Nigerian govt to fight COVID-19” The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control in its response quoted Dettol Nigeria’s tweet and stated that it has not engaged brand ambassadors as part of its approach against coronavirus. Akindele was arraigned in court along with her husband, JJC Skillz and other attendees of the occasion. She was sentenced to 14-day community service along with a 100,000 Naira fine.