The management of Lagos Airport Hotel has directed all its workers to proceed on three-month leave without pay. The organisation said it was in reaction to the downturn in business due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The hotel’s management said the pandemic has caused a financial crisis and its future uncertainty. “We regret to inform you of the decision of management for you to continue your stay at home after your leave for three months without pay till the company contacts you,” Mrs Yemi Madu said in a letter on behalf of the management. “This decision was painful and we are sorry it has to come to this but we continue to hope for the best and wish you well.” But organised Labour in the sector has vowed to resist the action which it considered unconstitutional. Hotel and Personal Services Senior Staff Association (HAPSSSA) and the National Union of Hotels and Personal Services Workers (NUHPSW) said they were not carried along in the management’s crucial decision. The immediate past president of HAPSSSA, Ademola Adeyemi said the action of the Airport Hotel management is against the law, hence the workers are not going to abide with it. Adeyemi, who lamented how the workers would survive without pay for three months said the management of the hotel was just been insensitive to the workers, who have given their all to the success of the organisation. The Labour leader queried the rationale for the Airport Hotel to keep workers away for three months, wondering if they would be the one to determine when the global virus would end. The former president said the decision did not have a good consultation with all the stakeholders, including the owner of the hotel, Odua group, stating the more reason why the unions would resist it. He said: “How do they want the workers to survive for three months when even the March salary has not been paid since all the workers have been forced to a compulsory leave. “Where is decent work here, how do we pay our bills, feed our families and meet with other expenses.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .