Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel has explained that the negative reports about the state on the social media are the handiwork of mischief-makers, who want to disparage the state’s achievements in the fight against the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Addressing newsmen, Monday night, on the efforts of his government in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the state, he said bulk of what was seen or heard through the social media were aimed at bringing the government into disrepute. The governor, who attended the briefing with members of the State Executive Council (SEC), stated: “Normally, on a day like this, I would not have loved to bring out the entire executive; but I want to show the whole world and try to let people know that the bulk of what they read and hear are pure blackmail and has nothing to do with COVID-19. When I talk, people may think we are trying to be defensive. “In the past days, I have been receiving calls that my exco members – some say nine some say 11 – have tested positive and probably in their houses being treated of COVID-19. I am here with all the exco members, and none of them is with any symptom, but hale and hearty.” According to the governor, the state has tried to provide quality health services to the citizens, even before the coming of
COVID-19, noting that such has given the state the head start in tackling the pandemic. His words, “We have only three active cases; our recovery rate has been marvelous and we have to thank God for that. COVID-19 has never happened before; so everyone is learning to manage it. “Despite, COVID-19 met us prepared as if we knew. One hundred per cent of the equipment at Ibom Specialist Hospital, including the 13 ventilators, were bought before COVID-19. We have set up additional isolation centre in Ibom Specialist hospital, with oxygen and everything, and bought additional 1500KVA generating set for the hospital. “We have a modern digital, functional situation room for every single test analysis, and close to 50 medical experts are manning these.” Emmanuel said everyone in Akwa Ibom, who met the criteria of case management in accordance with Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) guidelines, had been tested. He challenged anyone experiencing COVID-19 symptoms and had been denied screening to “come out and say so.” The isolation centres, he added, were built according to international standard, and some of the machines to be used there were delayed due to the lockdown caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. He disclosed that the state government had spent close to N1 billion in the fight against the pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .