CP assures residents of adequate security
Lagos State Police Command has warned against rumour-mongering and spreading of fake news, saying that it poses dangers to efforts of the security agencies in crime prevention and control. The state police spokesman, DSP Bala Elkana, who gave the warning yesterday, said: “Lagos State Police Command has received several calls and messages mostly from residents of Igando, Idimu and Ikotun, among others, that a criminal gang known as “one million boys” are planning to attack their communities. “The Command responded with a massive deployment of police patrol teams to beef up the security of the areas mentioned and other parts of the state. Police special forces are strategically positioned patrolling the length and breadth of the state. “The Inspector General of Police IGP Mohammed Adamu Abubakar, has deployed DIG Peter Ogunyanwo to Lagos to have an on-the-spot assessment of the situation in Lagos and Ogun states as well as to co-ordinate the ongoing onslaught launched against criminal elements. “The IGP has equally deployed special forces to support the tactical units initially deployed by the Commissioner of Police Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu. The Special Forces were last night deployed to Igando, Idimu, Ikotun, Agege, Dopemu, Abattoir, Mangoro, Alakuku, and other parts of Lagos State to provide round-the-clock patrols. “The Command will not relent on its efforts in protecting the lives and property of the citizens and residents. Members of the public, especially residents of the communities mentioned above, are enjoined to remain calm and support the ongoing efforts of the police in ridding the state of criminal elements. “The command with the support of the good people of Lagos State has dealt a big blow to this criminal gang and several other gangs over the last four months. Over 800 members of the gangs and their leaders were arrested and charged to court. They are still in correctional centres. “No criminal gang is capable of unleashing terror on our communities. Rumour-mongering and spreading fake news pose a lot of dangers to our collective efforts in crime prevention and control. “Before pressing the forward button or putting that call across, take time to verify the source of the information. Avoid being a courier or victim of spreading fake news. Together, we will continue to keep Lagos safe. “For information or complaints call the following numbers 09010512285, 09010512286, 09010512287 and 09010512288.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .