• CSOs, Mark task Kano, FG on palliatives
Bauchi State has recorded another case of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19), bringing the number of cases in the state to three. While briefing newsmen at the Ministry of Health office in Bauchi on Tuesday, the deputy governor, Baba Tela, disclosed the patient as a 55-year-old man. Also, Governor Bala Mohammed has declared a 14-day lockdown to contain the spread of the virus. The stay-at-home order takes effect from 6 p.m. today. The governor said, “The measure was aimed at curtailing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic that is threatening the world. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mohammed Baba added: “Movement is allowed between 10a.m. and 4p.m. Wednesdays and Saturdays for the public to secure food items.” To cushion the effect of the harsh economy occasioned by the ravaging COVID-19, a coalition of civil society groups in Kano State has urged the state government to provide incentives, especially to vulnerable in the society. The coalition, under the umbrella of Kano Civil Society Forum (KCSF), advocated urgent reconstitution of the COVID-19 Fundraising Committee by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje. In a statement signed by the chairman, Ibrahim Waiye, the coalition welcomed the fund-raising committee as a response mechanism with specific responsibility to coordinate all donations to contain the spread and effect of the pandemic. The forum, however, expressed dismay that membership of the committee did not reflect the larger interest of the society, as civil society groups were excluded. It stated, “The committee should be reconstituted objectively in the best interest of the people of Kano, to have a sense of public acceptability. Its membership should be inclusive, reflecting all interest groups in the state, devoid of any political, partisan or personal sentiment.” In the same vein, former president of the Senate, David Mark, has urged Nigerians to join governments to wage total battle against COVID-19. He noted that the unabated spread of the virus had reinforced the urgent need for all citizens to comply with the stay-at-home order and observation of personal hygiene, regular washing of hands and the use of hand sanitiser to curtail the spread. Senator Mark urged citizens to accept the discomfort and cooperate with authorities to curtail and ultimately annihilate the virus. Charging the Federal Government to work out modalities for palliatives to cushion the effect of the lockdown on citizens, as it is done in other countries affected by the pandemic. He, however, enjoined the authorities, especially the law enforcement agencies, to apply the internationally accepted standards of enforcement by respecting human rights and rule of law. “It is necessary to observe all safety measures on both sides, so that we would not unwittingly create more problems rather than solving them. After all, the whole essence is the safety of all.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .