The United Nations (UN) has received delivery of the second batch of vital medical supplies to support the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria on a flight funded by APM Terminals. The supplies, made up of 10,000 test kits, 15 oxygen concentrators and various Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), vaccines, IEHK/PEP kits and other vital health supplies, would support the government’s COVID-19 response plan and UNICEF’s work with children and families in Nigeria.
 
UN’s Resident Coordinator in Nigeria, Edward Kallon, said to limit the spread of the virus, it was important to test as many people as possible, especially those with recent travel history and those who came into contact with travelers, adding that the test kits would support Nigeria’s drive to control the transmission of COVID-19 infections and support government’s ongoing efforts to protect the country from an escalating pandemic. He explained that the additional COVID-19 response supplies, co-financed by the European Union (EU) and IHS Nigeria, the Nigerian subsidiary of IHS Towers, were expected in a UN joint flight to be delivered to Nigeria in the coming days. He noted that since the outbreak of the virus in Nigeria in late February, the UN has been supporting the government to respond to the pandemic through risk communications and community engagement, infection prevention and control, epidemiology/surveillance and management of Coronavirus cases. He added: “The supplies will also support the government, through the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to prevent and respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in affected states across the country. “The PPE will protect medical personnel and ancillary staff who are the first responders in the frontline and providing care and treatment to people affected by the virus. “The test kits will enable healthcare workers to test those who suspect they may have the virus to verify their health status, so they can get treatment and protect their families and communities.” The UN envoy observed that working closely together with government and other partners, including the private sector, was the surest way of preventing and containing the COVID-19 pandemic, noting: “We are grateful for the support of the EU and IHS in getting these vital supplies to strengthen the UN’s efforts in helping the government of Nigeria to address the COVID-19 challenge.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .