• Orphanages, slum settlements get N2 million, food items 
The Union of Campus Journalists Alumni Association of the University of Ibadan has pleaded with Nigerians to show utmost human feelings and compassion during this period of coronavirus pandemic. The union in a release signed by its national president, Dr. Adebayo Ajala, yesterday urged humanity to be courteous and show utmost compassion to our fellow beings. The Union decries a situation where prices of food items are increased indiscriminately without little consideration for this period and the problems faced by the masses. “It is also inhuman for security agents to impound vehicles bringing food and agricultural materials to the people for contravening the ‘sit at home’ order. “We also implore the security agents to perform their functions with the milk of humanity. Canning, slapping, and whipping of Nigerians for contravening the stay at home order should be reviewed. Though we do not encourage indiscipline, but we urge to conduct these affairs with the milk of kindness expected during this trying period. We also urge Nigerians to rally round each other morally and financially in friendship, families, communities, associations and governments at all levels to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said Meanwhile, as part of efforts to cushion the impact of the pandemic in Nigeria, the Chief Executive Officer of Gtext Homes and founder of Stephen Akintayo Foundation, Mr. Stephen Akintayo, has donated N2 million as relief package to orphanages and the most vulnerable in Nigeria.
 
According to Akintayo, this is not the season to think of self and family alone, but a time to give. “We need to be our brothers keepers by ensuring that those that do not have benefit from our deeds of kindness, as this will also go along way in helping people stay off the street to forestall the spread of the epidemic in Nigeria.
 
“I am also using this opportunity to call on our partners, friends and other Nigerians both corporates and individuals to see the need to give to the vulnerable among us,” he said.
 
“Gideon Orphanage and Widow homes was the first beneficiary of Stephen Akintayo relief donation of N250,000. Tivid Orphanage Home Int’l also received N250,000 relief donation from Stephen Akintayo. Maiduguri IDP Camp will also benefit through an NGO that will buy food items and distribute as well as medicine for the hospital in the IDP Camp.”
 
Also, N1 million naira has been be given to www.ginido.com, an e-commerce website, that will be distributing groceries worth one million naira to communities in Ajegunle and other areas.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .