Lagos State Government on Wednesday said it will withdraw its case against a former governorship candidate Babatunde Gbadamosi and Azeez Fashola popularly known as Naira Marley. Naira Marley and Gbadamosi were arraigned at a magistrate court, Ogba for flouting government’s stay-at-home order to attend a birthday party organised by celebrity couple Funke Akindele and Abdul Rashed Bello known as JJC Skillz. Lagos State attorney-general and justice commissioner Moyosore Onigbanjo SAN through the directorate of public prosecution led by Yakub Oshoala said the remorsefulness of the defendants is considered to withdraw the case against them. Oshoala said the defendants are required to fulfil three conditions of writing a public apology to the state government, write an undertaken to comply with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to stay-at-home and proceed on 14-day isolation to curb the spread of coronavirus. He said that this is absolutely necessary “in view of the fact that some individuals who travelled from endangered countries were present at the party.” “If they agree to these conditions, the 4 count charge will be withdrawn and that will be the end of the matter. We will keep it in abeyance,” Oshoala said. Currently, the gathering of people in any form is contrary to the social distancing directives by the Lagos State Government to curb the spread of coronavirus which is punishable by law. Defying the law attracts a fine of 100,000 and sentencing to 14 days of community service, three hours per day. Already, Funke Akindele and JJC Skillz have been sentenced to 14 days of community service by the Lagos State magistrate court in Ogba for hosting the birthday which had more than 20 people in attendance at their Lagos residence in Amen Estate, Ibeju-Lekki. Naira Marley and Gbadamosi later submitted themselves for an arrest to the Lagos State Police Command. Lagos State attorney-general earlier said their offence committed contravenes the social distance directive of the government as stated in the country’s Infectious Diseases Act.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .