Sport wear manufacturing outfit, Okakuro, has pledged its support to the uplifting of street children, saying it would help the unfortunate members of the society through its various intervention programmes. The United Nations marked Easter Sunday as the International Day for Street Children with the theme, ‘Safe spaces.’  This day is celebrated every April 12 all over the world. According to the country representative of Okakuro Group in Nigeria, Idemabasi Mkpokporo agreed that the streets the world over are full of children who have no homes to go to, which makes these set of people vulnerable to the elements. He said some of these children are very talented in football and other sports, adding that they need some push to hone their talents and contribute meaningfully to national development. Mkpokporo added: “They can be found in street corners, motor parks, stadiums, club houses, markets and under the overhead bridges. Taking proper care of these children will help in building a better society and in indirectly protecting our own children. “Some of these children are on the streets as a result of what they are experiencing at home. Such dysfunctional behaviour forces them run away from home. Some are even thrown out by their parents or relations. These kids are around us. To better the society and save the future – our own children, we need to help them in every little way we can. “Now, the rule is stay at home. Thousands of them do not have where they can call home. Not to talk of food to eat. “Going back to history, most great legends of sports came from the streets.” Also speaking on street children, Chief Executive Officer of Russel Smith Group, sponsors of FC Bulmaro, Kayode Adeleke, said the group decided to sponsor the Nigeria League One team primarily to give the vulnerable children the opportunity to exhibit their talents at the biggest stage. He revealed that but for the COVID-19 shutdown, a team of youngsters were billed to travel to Spain for a world youth tournament in April. He called on government to provide homes for homeless children as it is doing for disabled persons in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The government can use the National Stadiums in Lagos and Abuja to make it easier for interested bodies and individuals to help. We should all take responsibility, for our own good,” he stressed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .