Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, President, Centre for Change, has called on Federal Government to increase the number of isolation centres and testing sites in order to contain spread of COVID-19 pandemic as cases hit 627 Okei-Odumakin made the call in a statement in Lagos on Monday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control had on Sunday night announced that the confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria is now 627. Reacting, the group president said that the data on Coronavirus as released by the concerned authorities at international, national and state levels were really very disturbing. She described the rise in the number of the coronavirus cases in the country as disturbing and said there was a need for government to redouble efforts targeted at managing the pandemic “While the world has become a global village and we may not close our eyes to happenings elsewhere, our major concern at this point in time are the figures as they concern our country and people. “The figures of the infected are on the rise; so also the figures of those succumbing to the virus,” Okei-Odumakin said. She, however, commended the authorities and health workers for their great job especially with the encouraging number of those successfully treated of the virus and discharged from the hospital. “This is where we have to take caution and redouble our efforts. Our testing capacity must rapidly increase, likewise the number of bed spaces available. “More isolation centres have to spring up, and these must be well kitted and better manned. “Patients must be attended to and be well catered for, not dumped and allowed to get worse,” she said According to the group president, community spreading of Coronavirus has become the most potent danger that confronts the nation which may imperil us all if not given the seriousness it deserves. She therefore tasked government to increase their efforts in searching for those infected by the virus “Searching for those infected but hiding from the authorities has become a task that must be done. “Social distancing and observance of hygiene best practices are being preached all over the world as the best weapons to prevent the spread of Coronavirus and, eventually, to conquer it. “But these are better preached than observed, especially in a society such as ours which is crippled by traditional, superstitious, and religious fanaticism. “To make matters worse are the twin-evil of illiteracy and poverty, which have made preachments on social distancing to fall on deaf ears. “Government’s financial handicap to make palliatives reach everyone and the controversial way the little that was shared had been applied has given little confidence and comfort to many,” she said Okei-Odumakin feared that the country
might be in a long haul considering the increase in number of cases being released daily. “In the face of all of this, the figures as they are released daily give a frightening indication that we may be in this for the long haul. “We will therefore keep our eyes on the figures, so that we can review our progress or the lack of it from time to time,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .