The Chairman, Solid Minerals Development Fund (SMDF),  Saidu Malami, has said the fund would liaise with the National Economic Council to develop a mining sector-based strategy that will strengthen the government’s efforts for post-COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. He also added that the sector has a very crucial role to play, especially as price crude oil prices have fallen far below expectations, while expressing confidence that NEC would evolve fiscal policies needed to drive the economy after the pandemic. Malami, who spoke while receiving donations from Sany West Africa, commended the foresight of Mr President and the Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development, under the leadership of Olamilekan Adegbite, to work towards national economic boom. He explained that “formulation of the right fiscal policies and their effective implementation will reposition the mining sector for national economic diversification,” adding strategic steps have already been taken by the Ministry. He also emphasised the need for NEC to implement the right fiscal policies that will support operators and the country at large, saying: “Presently, the Council should try as much as possible to develop a post-Covid home-grown solution that will stimulate the potential of the mining sector for economic regeneration.” Malami commended Sany West Africa Limited for donating the palliative, and described the organisation as a proactive stakeholder in the industry, while calling on others to donate food items at this critical time in the history of the world to support Nigerians. “There is the need for healthy, safe and secure practices in mining and construction industry. Association of Miners and Processors of Barite, and Miners’ of Association of Nigeria must take advantage of the lockdown to prepare, plan and adapt new strategies for the post- Covid regime.” Earlier, the Managing Director, Sany West Africa, B. Lilei, assured of the organisation’s continued support to the development of the industry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .