• Orders compulsory wearing of face-masks
• Hunger pushed us to travel, say Enugu-Kogi-bound passengers The COVID-19 index patient in Anambra State has been discharged and released from protective care centre after his second test of the disease returned negative. He was released on the order of the state governor, Willie Obiano. Obiano had in a state-wide broadcast on Wednesday directed the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vin Okpala, to immediately release the first index case having been given a clean bill of health after the result of the second test came out negative. It was gathered that the state government had before the announcement took steps to decontaminate the home of the now discharged first index patient to check future eruption. According to the governor, the results of the 36 samples collected from contacts of the index cases that were kept in protective centres and submitted for testing, are being awaited. The governor, while commending the patience and co-operation of Anambra residents in the fight against Coronavirus, said that though the COVID-19 index case had tested negative for the second time, it was not yet Uhuru for the state. The governor said that to further ensure the state’s clean bill remained untainted, all motor parks in the state, as well as intercity/intra-community transits, would remain closed, while markets would open only on Tuesdays and Fridays respectively. He warned traders and customers in the markets to ensure they always maintain the principle of social distancing during the transaction process. He directed security agents to ensure effective and rigorous enforcement of the directives and also urged transport operators, banks and other businesses to assist in the enforcement of compulsory face-masks wearing by insisting that their customers wear them before they attend to them. He equally advised people to make their own face-masks with Ankara, abada and other cloths to ensure availability of masks but warned them against the use of polyester and polythene materials to make face-masks. In another development, no fewer than 30 vehicles loaded with passengers were intercepted yesterday along the Enugu-Benue-Kogi boundaries by officials of the Nigerian Army manning the Coronavirus check-points as part of measures to enforce interstate restriction on movement and check the spread of the virus. The affected commuters, numbering about 90, mostly from the northern part of the country, who said they had been held since Wednesday evening, claimed that hunger drove them away from their states. “We decided to move because of hunger. We want to go home to our people and die there,” the passengers said. While some of the passengers said they disguised and covered themselves with bags of food items, others narrated how they crossed Bonny River to escape from Port Harcourt. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .