30-year-old falls from Onitsha flyover Two teenagers have drowned while swimming at a community beach in Ibeju-Lekki area of Lagos State. The tragedy occurred on Saturday. The names of the deceased were giving simply as Dare, 16 and Fawas, 15. The Police Public Relations Officer, Lagos police command, Bala Elkana, in a statement yesterday said the police received a distress call that Dare and Fawas, both residents of Epelemeje Orofun community, Akodo in Ibeju-lekki, allegedly got drowned while playing in the community beach. “The command has deployed its Marine Police Team to the area on search and rescue operation. The command advise parents to monitor their children and ensure that they remain at home during this lockdown period,” he said. The police have arrested two notorious armed robbers in Ikorodu area of the state. The suspects, according to Elkana, were arrested on Easter Sunday at about 12 midnight, acting on credible information.
 
“Operatives from Ikorodu police station supported by Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) operatives deployed by the Commissioner of Police arrested one Toheeb Sanusi, 21 and Adewale Adeshina, 24, around Benson area, Ikorodu. One locally-made revolver pistol and one cutlass were recovered from them. The suspects confessed that they were in the area to rob unsuspecting members of the public. Investigation is ongoing, the suspects would soon be charged to court.” Meanwhile, a 30-year-old man on Saturday narrowly escaped death after falling off from the overhead bridge at the popular Upper Iweka in Onitsha, Anambra State. Residents of the area alleged the victim attempted suicide at about 3:15p.m. after jumping down from the flyover following news of a total lockdown by the state government. One of them, who preferred anonymity, said he saw the body of the man lying lifeless while driving pass the area. “They said the man just committed suicide by jumping from the Upper Iweka Flyover immediately he heard a news of total lockdown by the Anambra State government today,” he said. Reacting, police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, dismissed the alleged suicide report, saying the victim was still alive. He said: “At about 4:20p.m. a man of about 30 years old whose identity is yet to be ascertained allegedly missed steps and fall down from the flyover at Upper Iweka. Police patrol team attached to Okpoko Division visited the scene and rushed him to Toronto hospital for medical attention.“Victim is responding to treatment and investigation is ongoing to ascertain actual cause of the incident.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .