Kastina State has recorded five additional cases of coronavirus bringing the number of confirmed cases to 20. The new active cases were revealed in the routine update of information released by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) late Wednesday night. According to the NCDC, the state has 21 confirmed cases, with 20 of them active and one confirmed dead. The deceased, Dr. Aliyu Yakubu, who was the index case, had tested positive for the disease shortly after his demise. His wife and two children were also confirmed to have contracted the disease, while the rest were said to have contracted the virus through the index case. Governor Aminu Masari has already ordered a total lockdown of Daura and five other council areas to check the spread of the pandemic. He disclosed that the council areas are, Katsina (2), Batagarawa (0), Jibia (1), Dutsinma (2) and Mani (1), adding that Batagarawa was locked down not because it had a positive case, but because of its proximity to Katsina. Masari said the government would not hesitate to lockdown any council area where a confirmed case of the disease was identified. Meanwhile, with an additional two cases of coronavirus comprising one female and one male, Delta State now have six confirmed cases of COVID-19, with one death and five active cases. However, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chiedu Ebbie-led team continues with the monitoring of compliance in Asaba and its environs. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, who announced that the new active cases were being treated at the isolation centres, stated that the two new cases were recorded at Uvwie and Udu council areas of the state. In a statement issued in Asaba, he further disclosed that all the patients were doing well and urged the people of Delta with symptoms of COVID-19 like fever, malaria, catarrh, cough, chest pain, difficulty in breathing and loss of appetite to report to the nearest government hospital for medical evaluation and possible testing. Ononye added, “All the patients are in stable condition and are receiving treatment from our team of medical professionals at our isolation centres across the state. We have 11 persons quarantined in our holding centres, while 140 contacts are being monitored across the state. “There is an ongoing active case search in the local government areas and we urge persons with symptoms of Respiratory Tract Infection to report to any nearest government hospital for medical evaluation.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .