The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 yesterday said it had developed sector-specific guidelines for the gradual reopening of the economy, which would last six weeks – 14 days each – in three tranches. The phased strategy is to reduce socio-economic disruptions while strengthening “our public health response, which would ultimately reduce the recovery of our economy and provide succour to the poor and vulnerable.” Meanwhile, all passenger flights remain banned, while mandatory supervised isolation of persons arriving from outside the country for at least 14 days must be enforced Chairman of the task force and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, who disclosed yesterday at the daily press briefing of the panel in Abuja, added that the management of various offices, premises and businesses that would be gradually re-opened are to ensure the fumigation and decontamination of their premises, observe physical distancing, make provision for hand sanitisers and washing facilities as well as ensuring the mandatory use of facemasks and temperature checks. He said consideration must be given to persons living with disabilities, while an increased communication with staff on COVID-19 and measures put in place as well as any other measure that might be peculiar to the organisations and/or sector. Mustapha stated that a mass gathering of more than 20 people outside of a workplace remained prohibited, just as controlled access to neighborhood markets and locations of economic activities would be enforced with mandatory temperature checks conducted in public places. He said: “Social distancing of two metres to be maintained between people in workplaces and other public places. To underscore the collaborative efforts with sub-national levels of government, they are encouraged to provide leadership in engaging relevant associations responsible for various sectors, for instance, market associations and transport unions for orderly and effective implementation.” Besides, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday urged the task force to immediately account for the N5 billion released by President Muhammadu Buhari as special intervention fund to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said its demand was predicated on allegations that “the PTF has shrouded the funds in unnecessary administrative bottlenecks and unwarranted political control, which are impeding the smooth running of activities of the NCDC.” The party stated that it was “very worried over the recent frightening complaints by the NCDC that it was in desperate need of essential COVID-19 extraction kits required to tackle the pandemic and safeguard Nigerians at this critical time.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .