Canvasses caretaker council chairs as 27 members test negative for coronavirus
The 27-member Imo House of Assembly yesterday urged Governor Hope Uzodinma to revoke all contracts awarded between 2011 and 2019. By implication, the administration of Owelle Rochas Okorocha is being called to questioning. The member representing Ideato North constituency, Arthur Egwin, sponsored the motion that was supported by four others. During plenary, presided over Speaker Chiji Collins, they contended that the contracts allegedly did not follow due process in line with the State Procurement Law 12, 2010. Eqwin particularly accused the Imo Universal Education Board (IMSUBEB) of “not following economic cost, qualitative analysis, budget proposal and non-observance of required designs and technical specifications, among others.” He also blamed the then administration of “awarding contracts to political stooges, in-laws, friends and associates.” In his contributions, the members representing Oru West and Njaba constituencies, Dominic Ezerioha, and Uju Onwudiwe, said revoking the contracts would serve as a deterrent to other contractors who do not properly do their jobs well. Others who lent their voices included the Majority Leader, Uche Ogbuagu (Ikeduru); and Johnson Duru (Ideato South), who canvassed revisiting of the projects. Besides, the lawmakers implored the governor to appoint interim management committees for the all of the state’s local councils pending the conduct of elections into that tier of government. Eddy Obinna (Aboh Mbaise constituency), who sponsored the motion with four others, said it was in line with “Law number seven of 2013.” He alleged that the current directors of administration and general services (DAGS) system was encouraging corruption, inflation of salaries, absenteeism, gross mismanagement, among others. Moreover, the lawmakers have charged Uzodinma to establish a palliative and regulatory task force to check price hike and punish offenders. The deputy speaker and member representing Nwangele constituency, Amara Chyna Iwuanyanwu, sponsored the motion, stressing that it would provide essential commodities to the people of the state during the lockdown period occasioned by the COVID-19 epidemic. Also yesterday, Collins informed the world that all members of the assembly had tested negative for the novel Coronavirus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .