Gunmen at the weekend kidnapped the children of an Ibadan-based popular Muslim cleric, Alh. Taofeek Akewugbagold. According to Akewugbagold, his two-year-old twin kids were kidnapped at gunpoint from his house at about 8:30 p.m. in Ojoo area of the city. “What a country! My twins children were kidnapped at gunpoint at my Ojoo residence Ibadan 10 minutes after I left my home to record a lecture in a studio,” he said while calling on people to assist him in prayers and beg the abductors for mercy, lamenting that his wife gave birth to the twins after 12 years of barrenness. With teary voice, he besought the abductors to have pity on him and his wife who only gave birth to the twins through In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF). For more than 24 hours, Akeugbagold’s eyes have seen no sleep while he has fixed his gaze on his phone with the hope that the abductors will call to make known their request. Akeugbagold said he left home about 7:30 p.m. to record Islamic lecture to be relayed on radio and television. Before he could rush home, having received a call from his wife that armed robbers were in the house, the abductors had overpowered the gatekeeper, got into the house and kidnapped the kids. “Immediately, I left home, my wife just called me, saying that she was calling from a corner and that armed robbers were already in the house. Immediately I got the call, I turned back but before I got home, they were gone. All I heard was that they overpowered the gateman, pointed a gun at him and he surrendered. Even they pointed the gun at children of two years (sobs). “I am appealing to the abductors to please pity my condition. I have not slept since yesterday expecting that the abductors will call. My wife was barren for 12 years; that is the only children she had through IVF. They should please call me. All I need is the safety of my children.” The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in the state, Gbenga Fadeyi, who confirmed the incident, disclosed that four persons have been arrested in connection with the kidnap, and were assisting the police in their investigations. Akewugbagold, who hails from Oyo West Local Government, was a former chairman of the Oyo State Pilgrims Welfare Board (Muslim Wing) during the two-term tenure of the immediate-past governor, Abiola Ajimobi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .