• Pandemic has exposed bankruptcy of a false polity, says CTL
• Archbishop Martins donates relief materials to govt Lagos State Government has said that COVID-19 test in all approved testing centres in Lagos State are carried out free of charge. The state’s Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, stated this yesterday while reacting to an online report, which alleged that patients pay N30,000 for COVID-19 test at Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) approved centres in Lagos, noting that no designated testing centre in the state is allowed to collect money for the COVID-19 tests. “I want to state unequivocally that there is no designated COVID-19 testing centre in Lagos that collects or is allowed to collect money for the test. COVID-19 tests at the designated testing centres are free of charge,” Abayomi said. The commissioner said that the state Ministry of Health was not aware of any health worker at any of the testing centres collecting money for the COVID-19 test, urging residents to be wary of misleading reports targeted at discrediting frontline health workers who are committed to ensuring that pandemic is contained. “I want to assure the public that activities at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba and other approved centres for COVID-19 screening are effectively being monitored in accordance with the strict guidelines of the Lagos State COVID-19 Response under which no fees are collected for the tests. “We urge Lagos State residents to call 08000CORONA to report any health worker and or anyone who demands and or requests fees to conduct COVID-19 tests at any of our designated testing centres,” he stated. However, the attendant challenges posed by the imperative of containing COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the bankruptcy of a false polity founded on promoting the narrow interest of thieving political oligarchy at the expense of overwhelming majority of the citizenry.  
 
This was the position of Centre for Truth and Liberty (CTL) yesterday in Lagos, which noted that the tragedy of the expose of leadership deficit in the wake of COVID-19 reality is not just about the giddying indictment thrown at the faces of ruling elite who together with their relations and cronies have been forced to remain in the country, with no other option than to patronise the same healthcare facilities they left in utter ruins for decades.  In another development, the Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Dr. Alfred Adewale Martins, has donated some relief materials to the Lagos State government to support its efforts in providing assistance to the needy and help contain the Coronavirus pandemic. The items donated include 500 bags of rice, 400 hand sanitisers, as well as St. Raphael the Great Hospital, Ijede, Ikorodu, as an isolation centre should the need arise. While presenting the materials to the wife of the governor, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, at the State House, Marina, Lagos, yesterday, the Chancellor of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, Very Rev. Msgr Anthony Obanla, who represented the Archbishop, commended the governor and the government of Lagos State for the proactive steps being taken since the first index case was identified in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .