The World Health Organisation (WHO), the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and other stakeholders on the World Health Day (WHD) April 7, have advocated more support for nurses and midwives, especially those fighting to contain COVID-19. The WHO said April 7, 2020 was the day to celebrate nurses and midwives for their work and remind world leaders of their critical role in keeping the world healthy. Director General of the WHO, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said, “Nurses and other health workers are at the forefront of COVID-19 response- providing high quality, respectful treatment and care, leading community dialogue to address fears and questions and, in some instances, collecting data for clinical studies. Quite simply, without nurses, there would be no response. “In this International Year of the Nurse and the Midwife, the WHD will highlight the current status of nursing and around the world. WHO and its partners will make a series of recommendations to strengthen of the nursing and midwifery workforce.” Speaking, President, NMA, Dr. Francis Adedayo Faduyile, noted, “As the WHO celebrates the Nursing profession by making the theme of the 2020 WHD to “Support Nurses and Midwives”, the NMA acknowledges the enormous contributions of our nurses and midwives in the health sector and the country. Besides, the United States Consulate General has explained why 44,000 citizens of the United States (U.S.) have been repatriated from 78 countries since January 29, 2020 at the peak of the coronavirus pandemic. Information Assistant, U.S. Consulate General, Public Affairs Section, Ayo Durodola, told journalists that, “The U.S. Department of State has no greater priority than the safety and security of U.S. citizens overseas. We are rising to meet the historic challenge posed by the COVID-19 epidemic every day all over the world. Meanwhile, a philosopher, Dr. Elo Aforka has cautioned the Federal Government against what he described a hasty decision to invite Chinese medical experts to contain Coronasvirus otherwise called Covid-19, saying they may test-run the virus on Nigerians. Aforka, who spoke in Awka, described the move as insensitive, adding that resorting to China for remedy, when Chinese citizens in Wuhan were still grappling with their challenges over lockdown of the city did not make sense. He said no reasonable government would ignore the call of its citizens and medical experts against the invitation of Chinese medical doctors who are yet to eradicate the Covid-19 pandemic in their country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .