 Olunloyo  Apart from cutting short the democratic experience that was bourgeoning under the novel presidential system, the Gen. Muhammadu Buhari coup d’état of 1983 robbed Oyo people and Nigerians of a golden opportunity to see the impact of bright intellectuals in governance and leadership. The remarkable feature of that military debacle was that while the brass hats were exulting in their archaic manifesto of corruption allegation, Olunloyo and Michael Adekunle Ajasin were found without the wrinkle and blemish of corrupt enrichment. An encore that didn’t come
At the return of the country to the path of constitutional democracy in 1999, Olunloyo made another effort to contest the governorship, but the intricate garrison politics in his chosen political platform, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), did not allow that effort to bear fruit. However, like an oasis in a desert of political immorality, Olunloyo used the electioneering period preceding the 2013 general elections to showcase his academic brilliance, understanding of the issues as well as his impeccable public service record. While addressing a crowd of expectant supporters at the legendary Mapo Hall, the former governor made public his intention to contest for the governorship ticket of PDP, hoping that should the party honour him with the nomination, he would assuredly turn the table once again against the entrenched platform in the Southwest geopolitical zone, the Alliance for Democracy (AD) that had just transmuted to Action Congress (AC). Although he was an Awoist, Olunloyo doubted the Awoist credentials of some of his peers in the ruling AD and chose to pitch tent with the conservative PDP. Alluding to that disparity in political orientation and belief while announcing his desire to seek nomination of PDP, the mathematician said: “I am an aspirant simply because the degree of decay and deterioration in nearly all facets of our life needs to be arrested swiftly and efficiently calling for as it does, a seasoned, experienced hand. “At times such as this, there should be no room for new comers to governance. My gubernatorial aspiration and candidature is a little different from others in that I need no introduction as to past activity and experience at nearly all-intermediate levels in these parts. “I am for efficiency, prompt solution to problems, probity and transparency. All these are better said than done, but I believe I have been fully tried and tested. The things that tend to divide us deserve mention. I am for peace, love and unity. I am for the protection of the rights of all people, foreign or national, North, East, South or West to live in peace here.” Falling back on his experience and knowledge of the burning issues in Southwest politics, he outlined his determination to forge Yoruba unity, even as he assured that nobody should be afraid of others, particularly against the background of skirmishes between Arewa community and Odua Peoples Congress (OPC). His words at Mapo Hall about religious harmony were loud and clear: “We must steer clear of religious tensions. We are a closely-knit people religion-wise. We must cater equally and respectfully for all forms of religious worship. We must beware of potentially explosive issues like sharia, which if carelessly handled, will mess up our state.” As a man candour and simplicity, Dr. Olunloyo seems to have come ahead of his time, because it is just as if the nature of Nigerian politics has not matured to the level of accommodating his vision of leadership as the fortress of the best and the brightest. At least his arguments about the contentious 122/3 political arithmetic in the presidential election dispute between Chief Obafemi Awolowo of UPN and Shehu Shagari of National Party of Nigeria in 1979 show that morality should be the soul of politics. From his testimony, it was clear to all that Shagari did not win the election, but the Supreme Court Justices were allowed to get away with their sophism: “The substance is, first of all, Awolowo insisted that 12 2/3 was not rational; was not sensible or reasonable. But I succeeded in proving, although not with a wave of the hand, in giving the idea of 12 2/3 a natural construction. “It is either 12 2/3 or in the alternative, 13. Before you could be president, the law said you must win in at least two thirds of the total 19 states we had in Nigeria then. Shagari won in 12. Kano State was the contentious one.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .