Senator Abba Ali First Bank, Total, others commiserate with Buhari
As Nigerians await the appointment of a new Chief of Staff (CoS) to President Muhammadu Buhari after the demise of Abba Kyari, the League of Former Parliamentarians (LFP) has urged the president to appoint Senator Abba Ali. LFP told journalists in Owerri that Ali was best suited for the job of CoS, being a sound lawyer and educationist. In the resolution signed by former acting governor of Imo State, Kelechi Iwuagu, Alhaji Gambo Sallau, AbdulAziz Gafasa and Kabiru Rurum, they assured Buhari of their candidate’s competence and capacity to serve meritoriously as CoS. The former parliamentarians said that Ali possessed all the noble attributes Buhari ascribed to the former CoS, describing him as “a detribalised Nigerian.” Part of the resolution read: “While we commiserate with President Buhari on the loss of his former Chief of Staff, we wish to urge [him] to appoint Senator Abba Ali into the position to assist him in the onerous duty of serving Nigerians. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari has received more condolences over Kyari, who died of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on April 17, 2020. In a letter of condolence to the president, Chief Executive Officer, First Bank, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, described the demise of Kyari as “a colossal loss to the nation as a whole.” He noted that the deceased was a man of many illustrious parts, including accomplished lawyer, editor, banker, technocrat and statesman who contributed immeasurably to national development. “Your Excellency, we sympathise with you and his entire family. This, certainly, is a trying time for you, his family, friends, associates and staff. We urge you to be unwavering and sustain his lofty contributions to nation building,” Adeduntan stated. Similarly, the Managing Director/Chief Executive of Total, Mike Sangster, stated that Kyari’s great contributions to the development of Nigeria under Buhari’s administration should be remembered. The president also received letters of condolence from the Acting Group Managing Director of New Nigeria Development Company Limited, Shehu Mai-Borno where the late Kyari once worked; a former Minister of State, Federal Capital Territory, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, who said the deceased
“meant well for our nation and worked passionately to discharge his duties,” and the National Chairman, Nigeria For Democracy Party, Dr. Asukwo Archibong.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .