Chief Executive Office, AXA Mansard Health Limited, Tope Adeniyi In a quest to address the situation in the country’s insurance industry, operators have emphasised the need to increase the adoption of health insurance policy in the private sector as part of efforts to increase productivity. Speaking to The Guardian over the weekend in an interview, the Chief Executive Office, AXA Mansard Health Limited, Tope Adeniyi, said, “One of the lessons the ongoing pandemic has taught the world is that healthcare will always be topmost priority to every individual, irrespective of the age, colour or gender. Adeniyi, stressed that operators must therefore constantly strive to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater for people’s healthcare needs at every point in time. Indeed, the launch of telemedicine service as part of contributions to reduce the spread of COVID-19, according to the firm, is very much in line with the promise to ‘empower people to live better lives. According to Adeniyi, the service will also help Nigerians reduce the risk of hospital acquired infections, help them align with social distancing guidelines and eliminate travel time to hospital. The health sector may become overwhelmed with the growing spread of COVID-19 virus, leaving patients with other health issues at risk of neglect. To mitigate this risk, we have decided to employ the use of the telemedicine service to ensure all Nigerians are given the best treatment at any time, Adeniyi said. The service provides a platform that connects patients with licensed doctors who can consult, diagnose, prescribe medication and make recommendations on medical conditions and treatments. The Managing Director, Clearline HMO, Dr. Babatunde Ladele, who also commented on the development, urged the Federal Government to ensure adequate funding of healthcare in the country and to make the National Health Insurance Scheme mandatory for all Nigerians. Ladele, in an interview with our correspondent, urged all the tiers of government to adopt the health insurance scheme which aligns with best global practices. He stressed the need for a blueprint in the nation’s health care system and why health care delivery should be made a subject for national discourse. This, according to him, will make all stakeholders work assiduously to facilitate the desired growth of the nation’s healthcare. Ladele called for concerted efforts to rescues the nation’s health care sector as the coverage of the health insurance scheme is still low in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .