• 45-year-old man commits suicide
• Court remands ex-police officer over killing of colleague in Rivers Residents living around Shell Camp near Alvana Primary School, Owerri in Imo State, were yesterday morning thrown into confusion as they woke up to see the lifeless body of a Police Inspector attached to the Imo State police command, Kaura Haruna, on the floor. The Police Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Orlando Godson Ikeokwu, said the deceased had no history of suffering from any ailment, adding that they were surprised by his sudden demise, especially as there were scars on his body showing signs of “shuffling and violence”. His words: “Haruna Kaura, until his death, was attached to the Government House, Owerri. The team of officers that removed the body discovered marks of violence on his back and neck regions. The ID of the deceased was seen on his palm, with a marked number 18 PMF Squadron, while his service pistol was carted away.” Also yesterday, another tragedy occurred in Umudafa-Awo Mbieri, Mbaitoli Local Government Area of Imo, when residents woke up to see a dangling lifeless body of a 45-year-old man, Osita Ezurike, in his room. No one could ascertain the reason behind the suicide as he lived alone. Meanwhile, a Magistrate Court sitting in Port Harcourt, River State has ordered the remand of ex-police officer, Sgt Bitrus Osaiah, to the Rivers State correctional centre, for allegedly killing a female police officer, Lovenda Elekwachi. Osaiah was arraigned on a one-count charge of murder. The accused who was attached to the Rivers State task force had allegedly shot the female officer during a raid with the task force team in some markets around Eneka junction, where the deceased was controlling traffic. When the charge was read out to Osaiah, he was not allowed to take plea as the Magistrate, Ipalibo Iyabo, ordered that the case file be sent to the Director of State prosecution (DPP), for report and ordered that Osaiah be remanded in custody pending the outcome of the DPP report and adjourned the matter till May 26. The accused is being prosecuted by the Commissioner of Police, Joseph Mukan, who had during a condolence visit to Elekwachi’s family assured them of justice in the matter, adding that the Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, is interested in getting justice for the deceased. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .