Lebanese authorities have questioned Wael Jerro for his Facebook post advertising sale of a Nigerian lady. Jerro in a Facebook post tagged a Facebook marketplace – Buy & Sell In Lebanon (Original) الأصلي – with a Nigerian international passport belonging to one Peace Ufuoma, born on May 19, 1988. The passport was issued in Ibadan May 23, 2018, and will expire on May 22, 2023. “Domestic worker from Nigeria for sale with new legal documents. She’s 30 years old, she’s very active and very clean. Price: $1,000,” Jerro wrote on Facebook. The information was translated into English from Arabic by Renee Abisaad, who first shared the news on her Instagram page. Abisaad on Tuesday told The Guardian that Lebanese immigration is investigating Jerro already. He told the authorities that it was his four-year-old daughter that made the post and not him. It is unclear how the daughter accessed the father’s Facebook page to make a post with corresponding images. At least four Nigerian women have been rescued from forced labour in Lebanon since the beginning of the year. All of them were deceived with the promises of good employment The director-general of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons Dame Julie Okah-Donli told The Guardian on Tuesday that NAPTIP investigators were already working on the case. The chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission on Tuesday said that a “manhunt is on for the man and all-out search for the young girl.” Dabiri-Erewa said the Nigerian mission in Lebanon has reported to the host authorities. She said the latest case is an indication that there is a need for a renewed fight against traffickers in the country. She added that unless they are being adequately punished, trafficking would not cease in Nigeria. Abike’s sentiment aligns with many contributors’ view on the issue. Many believe that there is a cartel working out of Nigeria that is responsible for the recruitment and trafficking. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .