For defying the physical distancing protocol, the Lagos State Task Force on COVID-19 yesterday stormed a surprise party and arrested 60 fun-seeking guests for violating the lockdown order and not complying with the social distancing directive of the state. The party, which was held at 84 Parks and Gardens, Idi Oparun bus stop, opposite Abattoir at Abule Egba area of Lagos, had in attendance as at the time of the enforcement over 56 youths who had gathered to celebrate. The arrest was coordinated by the joint task force of the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Lagos State Safety Commission, and the police Rapid Response Squad (RRS). The Director, Enforcement and Monitoring, LASEPA, Mr. Kayode Bello, said the team stormed the party after receiving a tip-off from a concerned citizen of the state of an ongoing birthday party. The General Manager, LASEPA, Dolapo Fasawe, while reacting to the development, said: “It is no longer business as usual in the state. This pandemic has united us all and encouraged citizen participation in terms of information sharing. We responded at exactly 3:10 p.m. after receiving the information and surprisingly met the youths who were shabbily dressed for a birthday party. It shouldn’t be difficult for us to obey simple instruction and adhere strictly to safety precautions, so as to timely flatten the curve and normalcy can return to the world.” She said the facility has been sealed off while the youths were taken away by the police for further investigation and profiling. Faswe appealed to parents and guardians to seriously warn their wards and stay away from the unlawful gathering. “All hands are on deck to ensure that there is no hiding place for flagrant violators. The war can only be won through the collective efforts of all. We all have a part to play as stakeholders. We sealed off a night club using a pharmacy store to cover up at VGC on Monday as a result of information sharing from concern citizens.” Also speaking on the development, the Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Mr. Lanre Mojola, expressed shock that despite the enlightenment and advocacy of the state on social distancing and staying at home, some people can still devised unholistic means to gather and merry when lives are been lost daily across the globe. “It is disheartening that the youth who are the future of this great nation are insensitive about their health and if not because of you, think about those people who are to be affected directly or indirectly by your actions or inactions.” He further waned facility owners not to allow their places to be used in perpetrating evils by occupying the centres for unlawful means under the pretense of social gathering. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .