Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi yesterday directed the extension of restriction of movement and curfew in Ekiti State for two weeks to check further spread of COVID-19. Fayemi said that though the state had made appreciable progress in the war against Coronavirus pandemic, there was need to further tighten the social distancing to curb the spread of the deadly virus. The governor’s directive was contained in a statement by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, which was made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti. Fayemi said that all the existing measures put in place to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the state would continue to be enforced. According to the governor, wearing of face-masks in public places in the state has become compulsory in compliance with recent findings on causes of the spread of COVID -19. He said: “Restriction of Movement of Persons and Goods. Only exceptions allowed are for the purposes of obtaining food, seeking emergency, life-saving or chronic medical attention or obtaining social security grant. “Persons performing essential services will be allowed to move around, particularly health workers, but must be duly designated with an identity card by the head of their institutions. “All businesses and other entities shall remain closed. Oja Oba and Oja Bisi markets shall remain closed. Except for any business or entity involved in the manufacturing, supply, or provision of an essential good or service. In facilities where essential goods are sold, all directives in respect of hygienic conditions to prevent the exposure of persons to COVID-19 must be adhered to.” The governor, however, said that the restrictions would be suspended on Thursday, April 16, 2020 from 6:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. and Thursday, April 21, 2020 from 6:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. to enable people re-stock essential goods. He said that government was making efforts to set up a COVID-19 test centre in the state, saying: “This is one of the major tasks of the COVID-19 response resource mobilisation committee recently set up by the government to mobilise funds and manage projects to prevent the spread of this pandemic.” He said that government would continue to intensify ongoing measures specifically in response to the hardship being experienced by people across the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .