Following the directives of Federal Government to lockdown Lagos and Abuja, alongside other cities in the country in order to stop the spread of the pandemic COVID-19, hereby placing thousands of non-essential workers out of work, business and income, Darling, a leading hair extension brand has set-up relief fund to help alleviate some of the economic toll the pandemic has taken on small scale hairstyling businesses. The relief fund catered to five hundred hairstylists, to assist with the purchase of basic amenities. The purpose of the donation was to provide much-needed support for members of the hairstyling community who have been put out of work during these unprecedented times. However, the brand is not only supporting its immediate community but also honouring those on the frontlines of the pandemic because as the number of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria increases, more health workers remain at work to help contain the spread of the virus. So, to appreciate health workers for their sacrifices and commendable work in fighting the spread of coronavirus, Darling launched a campaign online-tagged ‘Darling Health Workers Salute’. Several Influencers have come on board to support the brands campaign by posting messages of appreciation to health workers and encouraging the public to acknowledge their efforts and celebrate them. While speaking on the brands initiatives towards COVID-19 relief, Head of Marketing, Godrej West Africa, Ayodele Otujinrin said: ‘‘It is important that we come together to support each other and collectively support our health workers who are at the frontline battling the pandemic. These initiatives are part of Darling’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), to improve the wellbeing of the community and a means to ensure that Nigerians thrive during this difficult time’’. Ayodele expressed optimism that the pandemic would soon be a thing of the past and encouraged Nigerians to stay at home and stay safe. “Although these changes have fundamentally altered the daily routines of millions of Nigerians, it is important that we follow the directives from the government to stay at home. This is not a permanent state, it is a moment in time, and we will get through this” she enthused. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .