Kano State governor Umar Ganduje on Monday accused the Presidential Taskforce on Coronavirus of neglecting the state in treatment and containing the spread of the global pandemic. “The problem (is) with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. Even its Director-General was in Kano. He spent a night here but we have not heard from him again,” Ganduje said in an interview with the BBC Hausa Service. “The Minister of Health is also aware that the laboratory is not functioning.” Kano State health commissioner Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa on Saturday, April 11 announced the first case of coronavirus in the state. Since the first case, Kano now has 77 confirmed cases of coronavirus according to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). One death has been recorded. But asides the cases of coronavirus, Kano State is currently dealing with a situation of ‘strange deaths’ that has killed over 600 residents. The state government is yet to speak on the cause of the deaths whether it is coronavirus related or not. Residents of Kano have continued to live in anxiety about the strange ailment killing many people, including prominent indigenes, in the city almost on a daily basis. Nigeria’s health minister Dr Osagie Ehanire during the weekend said the Federal Government is investigating the cause of the ‘mysterious deaths’ in the state. Ganduje, however, speaking on coronavirus in the state describes the situation is scary. “We are in a serious problem. I can tell you the situation is really bad and scary. Because what we solely rely upon in fighting the disease is the testing centre,” Ganduje said. The governor said there is also a shortage of sample collection equipment which is expensive to acquire. Ganduje said residents, whose samples were collected are still waiting to know their fate. “There is a serious problem. We have been complaining that Kano needs more than one testing centre, right from the beginning of this (pandemic),” Ganduje said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .