Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has sacked commissioner for Work and Infrastructure, Engr. Mu’azu Magaji. A statement signed by the government spokesman Muhammad Garba said the Engr. Mu’azu was sacked due to the statement he made on social media against late Chief of Staff to the President, Malam Abba Kyari. Garba noted that Governor Ganduje was shocked over his former commissioner’s comment, which he considered frightened for a public servant who ought to respect his office and refrain from any act capable of bringing the government to disrepute. “Win win… Nigeria is free and Abba kyari ya mutu a cikin annoba… Mutuwar shahada in Har da Imani mutum ya cika,” Mu’azu said on his Facebook page. “Abba kyari is no ordinary citizen he amassed so much power that decide the fate of my nation and its people.. Hence his death is never a personal death!” “I am not a hypocrite and I won’t pretent! While at personal level I pray Allah grant Abba Kyari Jannah… I sincerely believe Nigeria needed a better CoS period!” “For the good of Nigeria & Mr President… The CoS office should be split… A PPS & a humble manager of his office as CoS.. It’s currently too powerful for non elected official” “I am perfectly aware of the storm I am in… The fact however is I know what comes from the heart or that what is purchased!
You all will come around!” “When you are all done with the pretence and crocodile tears, we will do a review in overriding interest of the Nation and its people!” “Democracy & democratic equity does not by itself strive.. It must be guarded and protected… One person, just one person can set a dangerous precedence!” “It’s very very important we put things in perspective so that we can save our system from punitive unconstitutional usurpers in the future!” The commissioner for information said the action of a public servant, personal or otherwise reflects back on the government, noting that Governor Ganduje would not tolerate people in official capacities engaging in a personal vendetta or otherwise. According to the statement, late Abba Kyari had led a life worthy of emulation by serving his country to the best of his ability.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .