 An Iranian taxi driver sits inside a transparent partition to isolate himself from passengers at Aryashahr station, a transport hub in west Tehran on April 26, 2020, as cabs services have been among the hardest hit since the country’s coronavirus outbreak. – Usually, Tehran’s tens of thousands of taxi drivers have to battle maddening traffic but now the coronavirus is driving them around the bend. Since it first emerged in Iran in mid-February, the virus that causes the COVID-19 disease has claimed 5,700 lives and infected 90,000, according to Iran’s government. (Photo by ATTA KENARE / AFP)  “The number of deaths from this disease effectively crossed 6,000 today,” ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said in televised remarks. “Considering that we lost 71 of our countrymen in the past 24 hours, a total of 6,028 of those infected with COVID-19 have passed away to date,” he added. He added that another 983 people tested positive for the virus during the same period, bringing the total to 94,640. More than 75,100 of those infected had already been released from hospital after recovering. Of those still being treated for the disease, 2,976 were in critical condition. Doubts have been cast over Iran’s coronavirus casualty figures by experts and officials both at home and abroad. Health Minister Saeed Namaki criticised some Iranians for not taking the outbreak seriously. “I have a complaint about some citizens; you are considering the situation to be too normal,” Namaki said in televised remarks. “It is true that we had very good results at the height of economic distress, that deaths dropped to double digits and hospitalisations reached minimum, but this does not mean the coronavirus is done with.” Namaki also warned that Iran must prepare itself for a “simultaneous heavy wave of COVID-19 and the flu” in the coming autumn and winter. Iran has shut schools, universities, cinemas and stadiums among other public spaces since March to contain the spread of the virus. But since April 11, it has allowed a phased reopening of its economy and lifted restrictions on intercity travel. Mosques remain closed even as Muslims observe the fasting month of Ramadan. According to Namaki, his ministry is devising health protocols to allow Friday and group prayers to recommence in cities that have been given the all clear. Group prayers have been banned in the Islamic republic as a high-risk activity since mid-March. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .