Director-General, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu (right); Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun (second left) and others, during an interactive session after the inspection of the Isolation Centre in Ikenne and Molecular Laboratory at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu, by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and NCDC… yesterday. • Commission hails Makinde’s rapid response
• Doctors seek protection in Ogun against pandemic The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have commended the Dapo Abiodun-led government’s efforts at curbing Coronavirus spread. Both organisations said they were impressed with the quality of facilities on ground, the human capital and the willingness of the state government to go an extra mile at ensuring that the state does not become a safe haven for the COVID-19 pandemic. Director-General, NCDC, Dr. Chike Ihekweazu, after inspecting the first state fully-funded molecular laboratory at the Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH), Sagamu and the 128-bed COVID-19 Isolation and Treatment Centre at Ikenne, lauded the leadership of the state in giving directions to other states on how to deal with the Coronavirus pandemic. The NCDC boss said that the Centre was proud of what the state had been able to do and promised to work with the state government in its quest to battle the Coronavirus pandemic. In her remarks, the Country Director, WHO, Dr. Fiona Braka, applauded the state government for having the capacity that could take in more patients, adding that the WHO was impressed with the state government. Abidoun, who disclosed that the state was fully set to tackle the pandemic, said that the state had invested billions of naira in terms of setting up isolation centres, sensitisation, manpower development, surveillance, procuring equipment and other logistics and especially to purchase food items distributed across the state to mitigate the effects of the lockdown on its citizens. In the same vein, Ihekweazu yesterday lauded Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State for the rapid response to curb the COVID-19 pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .