The Borno State government has arrested a COVID-19 patient, after sneaking into Bakassi Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Maiduguri. According to the state’s COVID-19 response team, led by the deputy governor, Umar Kadafur, the fleeing patient led the burial of an index case in the state. “The arrested patient was tested positive of coronavirus after the burial of the index case in Biu town,” he said, noting that the patient managed to escape and sneaked into the IDP camp along Damboa road, Maiduguri. He said after the sneak, he also mingled with other IDPs, including his family members and relations in camp. Member of COVID-19 response team, Dr. Salihu Kwayabura, who doubles as the Health Commissioner, disclosed yesterday in Maiduguri, at a daily media update on the coronavirus disease that on receiving an alert on the location of the patient, the committee evacuated him from camp to a COVID-19 isolation centre. He noted that the patient is being treated without exhibiting the symptoms of the deadly virus. While updating on COVID-19 result sample tests, he said: “Positive cases remains 15, while the two suspected cases from Dikwa who were brought into the state have been tested negative to the virus.” He said out of the positive cases, 12 are contacts from the index cases, while three were independent of the index cases. Meanwhile, a young man suspected to have contracted COVID- 19, who escaped from the University of Medical Sciences Teaching Hospital, Ondo, has returned to the hospital. Chief Medical Director of the Hospital, Dr. Oluwole Ige, who stated this in a chat with journalists, said the patient showed symptoms of the disease and the result was being expected when he ran away. His words: “I can tell you that the patient has returned to the hospital. We are on top of the situation. He is still a suspected case. We are waiting for the result of the test conducted for him and two others.” The suspected patient had run away from the hospital complex in Ondo town last Saturday, causing tension among residents. Cases of COVID- 19 in Ondo state have risen to seven as at press time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .