 WASHINGTON, DC – APRIL 13: Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases stepos away after speaking during the daily briefing of the White House Coronavirus Task Force at the James Brady Press Briefing Room of the White House April 13, 2020 in Washington, DC. On Monday President Trump tweeted that he will be the one to make the decision to re-open the states in conjunction with the Governors and input from others.   Alex Wong/Getty Images/AFP  Anthony Fauci, who is helping to coordinate the US response to the global coronavirus pandemic, said reliable antibody testing and fast results are also crucial to the return of sports. “There’s a way of doing that,” Fauci told US Snapchat show “Good Luck America.” “Nobody comes to the stadiums. Put (athletes) in big hotels, wherever you want to play. “Keep them very well-surveilled, but have them tested like every week and make sure they don’t wind up infecting each other or their families, and just let them play the season out.” Professional sports leagues are in gridlock due to the pandemic that has so far killed nearly 28,000 Americans. The NBA is pondering a similar model for getting their 2019-20 season restarted in either Las Vegas or the Bahamas. The NBA shut down on March 11 after Utah Jazz centre Rudy Gobert tested positive for the virus, and the NHL, Major League Soccer and the PGA Tour quickly followed suit. The PGA is reportedly considering a return on June 11 without fans in attendance, starting with the Texas Open, which was originally scheduled for the weekend of May 21-24. The matches would not be played in front of fans, and the PGA may have to play on gallery-free courses for at least the months of June and July. Eight Tour events were postponed on March 17. The PGA Championship and Masters were rescheduled for later in the season. Major League Baseball’s 2020 season, which was due to start March 26, is on hold, as is the LPGA tour and motor racing, while the NFL is just hoping it will be able to start its season on time in September. New York mayor Bill de Blasio said Wednesday he doesn’t want to see large-scale sporting events and concerts with fans come back for a long time. “Those big events should be one of the last things we should bring back online. The last thing we should do is gather 10,000, 20,000, 50,000 people in one place,” de Blasio told CNN. “That is the opposite of social distancing, so I think it could take quite a while.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .