Adamawa State Government has attributed its zero case coronavirus cases to sheer luck, the proactive stance of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri and diligence of the trained health personnel handling awareness campaign on preventive rules. Addressing newsmen in his office, the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Engineer Ahmed Bashir who doubles as the chairman COVID-19 containment committee said the government was always taken aback to discover that people still enter Adamawa in spite of the lockdown order in the state. This was as he expressed mixed feelings towards security agents enforcing compliances especially at the borders He recalled how travellers often entered the state, thus rendering the entire campaigns and awareness especially the sit-at-home and social distancing useless. “What we still record is zero, Fintiri is proactive; we thank God we have not had any cause to isolate anybody up till today,” Bashir said. “It is sheer luck that we have come this far without any case.” “We went to Lafia border on Friday to arrange a quarantine centre there. On our way to Numan, we found buses full of men entering the state and we wondered ‘how come people still entered, knowing that the borders ought to be closed.'” He said, “When we got to Numan, we saw a mammoth crowd of people stranded with over 200 vehicles and wee were realised that enforcement was not properly carried out; we realised that the number of security agents there was not enough to contain the situation, we had to impress it on the police that it is their job to effect compliances as if they didn’t know. Though, they promised to improve.” He, however, commended some dutiful security personnel whom he described as loyal and patriotic Nigerians, noting, “Added to this and worth mentioning is the dedication of some security agents; you see, it is a matter of diligent enforcement and security agents’ sharpness and loyalty.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .