Bandits kidnap three nursing mothers in Kaduna
The abducted wife of the Baba-Aso of Igbole in Igboora, Oba Olusanjo, Olori Funbi Ojo and her daughter have regained their freedom. The spokesperson of the Oyo State police command confirmed this yesterday. It was gathered that the duo were released on Wednesday evening by their abductors on Igboora-Abeokuta road. The monarch’s wife, who is the matron of Oyo State College of Agriculture and Technology Health Centre, Igboora, was kidnapped alongside her daughter while returning from work on Monday evening. Although the kidnappers had on Tuesday evening through a phone call demanded a N4 million ransom for the duo to be released, it could not be confirmed whether the ransom was eventually paid. Confirming the release of the victims, Gbenga Fadeyi, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, said the duo were released unharmed. “I can confirm to you that the abducted wife of the monarch and her daughter have been released unhurt,” he said. Meanwhile, armed bandits have kidnapped three nursing mothers in Karaukarau village, Giwa Local government area of Kaduna State. A source from the village, Malam Sani Bakali told newsmen that the heavily armed bandits had earlier picked 13 women, were challenged and repelled by the villagers. Bakali explained that the hoodlums stormed the village on Tuesday afternoon during a wedding ceremony, to kidnap the victims. According to him, ‘You know the curfew imposed as a result of the coronavirus had not been easy for the bandits as they now have short supplies of food. The hoodlums now attack wedding venues and gatherings. “So, on Tuesday, there was a wedding in our village and the hoodlums stormed the venue and took 13 women.” He disclosed that when the villagers heard of it, they mobilised and confronted the bandits, “as a result of that, 10 women were rescued, while three nursing mothers were abducted. As at the time of filing this report, the three women are still under captivity. According to Bakali, they have reported the attack to the Divisional Police Headquarters in Giwa local government. However, when contacted, the Kaduna Police Command’s PPRO, ASP Mohammed Jalige said, he was yet to be briefed about the incident. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .