• Imams, Ulamas set up committee to tackle coronavirus
• SOKAPU urges gov to provide health facilities in Kafanchan Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai has relaxed the curfew he imposed on the state from 3 p.m. yesterday to midnight today. The governor had imposed the curfew following residents’ non-compliance to the sit-at-home order he gave as part of efforts to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state. El-Rufai and two other residents tested positive for COVID-19. The Commissioner for Home and Internal Security, Samuel Aruwan, said the government decided to temporarily relax the restriction from 3pm yesterday to midnight today (April 20) to enable people to buy food and other essentials. “Subsequently, the restriction of movement will be lifted every Tuesday and Wednesday,” says Aruwan. Worried by the spread of COVID-19 in the country, the Council of Imams and Ulama in Kaduna has inaugurated a 10-man committee to campaign for the prevention of the disease in the state. The Publicity Secretary, Dr. Abdullahi Maikudi, said that the chairman, Ibrahim Nakaka, had given a nod for the formation of the committee as a result of the nonchalant attitude of some people towards the prevention of COVID-19. He urged the committee to work with all interest groups to ensure better understanding among the people of Kaduna, particularly the Muslim community, on the mode of transmission and prevention of the virus. Secretary-general of the council, Yusuf Arrigasiyyu, who is a renowned public health expert, chairs the committee. Meanwhile, the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has called on the state government to set up health facilities in Kafanchan to handle emergency cases of the pandemic in the southern part of the state. The group lamented that there was no hospital with the necessary medical facilities in Southern Kaduna for dealing with COVID-19 cases. A statement by the National Publicity Secretary of SOKAPU, Luka Biniyat, commended the state government for introducing measures that will curtail the spread of the disease in the state. “We wish to draw the attention of the people of Kaduna to the reality of the presence of the deadly coronavirus in the state which has been ravaging the world. We commend the government of Kaduna State for the proactive measures taken so far to ensure that the virus is contained.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .