Super Eagles. Photo: TWITTER/NFF • ‘They should also learn to respect referees’
Former Super Eagles Star, Tijani Babangida believes that the present set of players will be as successful as their predecessors if they respect themselves and remain united. Babangida acknowledges that the current team have talented players, who can hold their own against any opposition if well managed, adding, however, that they need much more than talents to excel. He said the 1994 class were able to excel because the players had mutual respect for each other, noting that sharing ideas and cooperating to meet a common goal was the hallmark of the squad. The Ajax of Holland former player said:
“The 1994 Eagles stood out because the younger players like me and some other players had to put our heads down to learn from the older players. “We did not drag shoulders with any one. After training, the younger ones would pick the balls and arrange them with delight. “Although most of the players in the squad were in big clubs, the young ones in the team still respected their seniors in the Super Eagles. We learnt a lot from them as we played together. “This bond helped in shaping the Super Eagles to be among the best teams in Africa. The present team has to emulate this mentality. For the Eagles to be the best again, every player must be dedicated to achieve success.” Corroborating Babangida’s take on team unity, Eagles former defender, Augustine Eguavoen said the 1994 Super Eagles were friends even outside the pitch activities. “The unity among the 1994 Super Eagles went beyond playing together on the pitch. These are virtues the present Super Eagles players must imbibe to be at the top. “There are certain things they should also know apart from how to play football. “One is respect for referees in every game they are involved in. When I was playing in Belgium, the argument I had with a referee almost ruined my career. “Respect for referees is one of the first things they should learn because the men in the centre have enormous power in football,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .