 A section of the 30-bed isolation facility at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, Edo State.  Edo State Government has opened a 30-bed isolation facility at the Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin City, equipped with 15 ventilators, oxygen concentrators, dialysis and mobile x-ray machines, among others to manage cases of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the state. The Deputy Governor and Chairman, Technical Sub-committee on COVID-19 Response, Philip Shaibu, who led a team of government functionaries to inspect the facility, reiterated the state government’s determination to fight the infectious disease. According to him, the 30-bed facility was constructed in 12 days, a development that re-emphasises the state government’s determination to ensure that Edo people get top-notch treatment if infected by the virus. He said, “The world-class facilities here will sure assist the patients in getting well fast. There are internet facilities that will enable the sick get themselves abreast of the happenings around the world as they are connected to the world through cable television channels. “We have 15 ventilators in this centre, with 30-bed space. One ventilator is allocated to two beds,” Shaibu added. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, explained: “We already have a 12-bed facility here; the main building at Stella Obasanjo Hospital is a 158-bed facility, which will serve as a holding centre. Now we have newly completed 30-bed facility. We urge anyone in the state who has any symptom relating to COVID-19 to visit Stella Obasanjo Hospital to meet trained doctors and nurses here.” Meanwhile, Governor Godwin Obaseki has announced the discharge of five COVID-19 patients in the state. Obaseki, in his official Twitter handle yesterday, said the five patients had fully recovered having tested negative twice for the virus. This is coming several hours after the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) in its general fact sheet of COVID-19 situation report uploaded midnight of April 16 posted that five patients had been discharged. NCDC had, before the midnight report, said the state has 15 cases, one death and that no person has been discharged. However, the governor said, “I am pleased to announce that five of the confirmed cases in Edo have tested negative twice for COVID-19. They have thus been discharged. This bolsters our resolve to defeat this common enemy, as we roll out more measures to check the spread.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .