SIR: You have shown interest in the comfort of your people when you watched the virile video of complaints made by an actor over the non supply of electricity to help the stay-at-home directives. I must commend your effort at summoning that all important meeting after watching the video. It shows that you try to see to the daily happenings to Nigerians via the social media and street life of the people. I heard of the decisions reached at your meeting. However, some of the resolutions may never be implemented; such as not paying for electricity for a period in our case in Edo. The reason is that we will not even have the supply of electricity at all. However, let me use this opportunity to reiterate the cry and complaint of Edo people. Ours is now a theatre of the absurd. We have repeatedly appealed that BEDC should not retain its licence because she has failed, refused, neglected and omitted to supply energy for consumption neither are meters provided as expected by the extant law and regulations.
  
It seems the business still operate as NEPA with bureaucratic staff not knowing that they are in the service industry. As I write, in my area in Benin City as with several places in the entire state, we are yet to witness light for upward of weeks and in some cases months. My village, Uzea in Esan North east like several communities have not seen electricity for over five years. You will recall sir that, Edo people’s several protests culminated in several cases of news item on Channels television without a resolution of the issue by NERC.
Our revered monarch made a request over BEDC to Mr. President. The governor of Edo State insisted in not having a meeting with the managing director when house members of the Eighth Assembly paid a working visit to Edo State because of the deliberate and mischievous neglect to buy energy and supply for use by Edo people and the blocking of other channels to buck purchase or generate for supply to consumers. Apart from the effect of killing businesses, discomfort in this stay and work from home period, the security challenges created by this darkness is no joke. Mr. Speaker sir, we will reiterate our appeal, let the appropriate agency refuse the renewal of the licence of BEDC. In the interim, they should invest in infrastructure such as transformers and meters from what they have collected from us, supply electricity and NERC should ensure compliance before they leave. On the long run, kindly consider an amendment to the law to allow smaller companies and more of them distributing to our people.Edo people are peace loving people but not docile. Enough of this charade by BEDC.
• Emmanuel Usoh wrote from Benin City.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .