More than 100 dependents, include 90 children and 16 wives, have cried for help for their feeding and education, following the death of their breadwinners in the hands of bandits some days ago along the Zamfara-Katsina highway. The breadwinners, 11 of them, are residents of Dan Iyau/Karaje village in Batagarawa local government area of Katsina State, and had chartered a vehicle to take them to the Shinkafi market in neighbouring Zamfara State. Speaking on what happened, the village head of the area, Suleiman Abdullahi, said the dependents, who are mostly youths, were merchants that often collaborate with each other in the area of business transaction whenever need arises. “Unfortunately, they were attacked a few days ago by gunmen who opened fire on the bus they were travelling in, and the vehicle crashed into an oncoming one and theirs went up in flames. Eight of them were burnt to ashes, while three persons were rescued but were seriously burnt in various parts of their bodies. They are still in critical condition. “They are young men but they have over 70 to 80 children which they left behind, some of them have two to three wives; who shall cater for them?” Abdullahi said with their breadwinners no more, the dependents are pleading with government as well as wealthy individuals, to come to their aid, to cushion effect of the gap created over the loss. “We call on the state and local government to come to the aid of the families left behind by the nine dead traders and assist in the medical treatment of the three others who remain in critical conditions. “We call on both the state and local governments to assist the children they left behind in schools and what will eat. They no longer have parents and they are too small.” Speaking, one of the surviving victims, Abdullahi Adamu, said he managed to survive the burning vehicle and escape from the attacking bandits, after he crawled away undetected to a safe location. Adamu however lamented that his brother who was also traveling in the same vehicle, didn’t survive as he was burnt in several parts of his body which eventually led to his demise.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .