– INTELS donates isolation centres at Onne port The Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) and Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN) yesterday assured that some banks have resume operations in Apapa area of Lagos to facilitate the clearance of goods and other essential services. Banks in Apapa ports had earlier shut down in compliance with President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive that all business in Lagos, Ogun and Abuja should close for 14 days and that there should be total restriction of movement, but opened for services following NSC and CRFFN’s intervention. Executive Secretary of NSC, Hassan Bello said the council has intervened and assured that the banks will resume operations immediately. Bello, who spoke during an assessment of the Apapa and Tin-Can Island ports, said, “Two branches of Zenith Bank in Apapa have opened immediately to process assessment and payment of duty and we are talking with other banks to do the same.” However, the CRFFN, in a memo signed by its Registrar, Sam Nwakohu, said, “The scourge has brought a halt to bank services, as they are no longer operating as usual. Nevertheless, Executive Secretary of the Nigeria Shippers’ Council and l have been able to appeal to some commercial banks to open shops in compliance with the presidential directives.” He said no fewer than 12 branches of United Bank for Africa (UBA), Guarantee Trust Bank, Zenith Bank Plc, First Bank and Access Bank and its environs have opened for operations. Meanwhile, INTELS Nigeria Limited has donated two facilities to the Port Health Services (PHS) of the Federal Ministry of Health to serve as isolation centres at the Onne Port in Rivers State. Besides, it has donated two facilities to the Port Health Services (PHS) of the Federal Ministry of Health to serve as isolation centres at Onne Port, Rivers State. INTELS General Manager, Legal and Corporate Services, Amaopusenibo Mike Epelle, while handing over one of the centers, said the isolation centres at the Federal Ocean Terminal (FOT) and Federal Lighter Terminal (FLT), Onne Port, were donated to isolate suspected cases of Coronavirus discovered by the Port Health Services on visiting vessels. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .