Operators in the dairy industry have supported the government’s intervention programme with relief packages for 100,000 families. Indeed, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria PLC announced its support for over 100,000 Nigerian families with a relief package of dairy products in its commitment to join hands with the government to make a difference in the fight against COVID-19. The company has made a donation of its top brands, Peak and Three Crowns milk, to support over 100,000 families in low-end communities and vulnerable groups who are at risk of compromising their nutritional needs, thereby reducing their immunity to diseases. FrieslandCampina WAMCO has also made a donation of hygiene items to support healthcare professionals. Explaining the corporate gesture, the Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Ben Langat, said, “These are challenging times; this pandemic is testing our care for each other, and we must all rise up to the challenge. As a company, our mission is to nourish Nigerians with quality dairy nutrition, so we will continue to ensure our products are accessible so as to provide as many Nigerians as possible with essential nutrients from milk. We are committed to living this mission, more so in the face of the COVID-19 threat. I thank our teams, who are making huge sacrifices every day to ensure this.” FrieslandCampina WAMCO made its donation in partnership with the Lagos State Government and the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs Disaster Management and Social Development,  to get the nutrition relief package to the communities where they are most needed. Speaking further, the company’s Executive Director, Corporate Affairs, Ore Famurewa said, “We commend the incredible courage and resilience displayed by healthcare professionals and others at the frontline of this fight. We encourage Nigerians to stay healthy and safe. “Every day FrieslandCampina WAMCO provides millions of Nigerians with dairy products that are rich in valuable nutrients from milk. Producing good and healthy dairy products is at the core of who we are and of everything we do. Our unique grass to glass proposition under the Dairy Development Programme supports the Federal Government agenda for local food sufficiency” Famurewa said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .