• Debunks rumour of son’s status
• Kano gets N365m as Ganduje, wife test negative While results of the two suspected cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Taraba State are still being awaited, Governor Darius Ishaku has said that “no positive case of the virus” has been recorded in the state. Samples of the two suspects were earlier taken to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for investigation. The zero cases, according to the governor, was made possible by the various preventive measures his administration put in place, including shutting down of markets and worship centres, to prevent the spread of the virus. Reacting yesterday to a publication in one of the national dailies which claimed that the state had recorded positive case, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, said that no single cause of the virus had been confirmed in the state, and that government was working tirelessly “to make sure that COVID-19 does not spread to this state.” However, contrary to the rumour that Governor Ishaku’s son had tested positive for COVID-19, the governor said: “no member of my family has tested positive for the virus.” Abu, in a statement issued yesterday in Jalingo, said that none of the governor’s children was living in the state. The allegation, he said, was aimed at discrediting the laudable moves of the governor to halt the spread of the virus into the state. According to him, the rumour came up as a result of the governor’s decision last Tuesday to shut down worship centres. Meanwhile, Chairman of COVID-19 Fundraising Committee in Kano State, Prof. Mohammad Bello, has disclosed that the committee has received N365 million cash donation. The Vice-Chancellor of Bayero University Kano (BUK) told journalists at Government House, Kano, that the 40-member committee had also taken delivery of food items from well-meaning individuals and corporate organisations in the last four days. In Kano State, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and his wife, Prof. Hafsat Ganduje, have tested negative for COVID-19. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Abba Anwar, said the couple received their clean bill of health yesterday from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “After receiving the results, Ganduje assured that his government would maintain the proactive measures against COVID-19,” he stated. He urged members of the public to observe regular hand-washing with running water, use hand sanitisers, keep a tidy environment, and avoid gatherings, particularly in markets and other public places, among other safety measures. “Staying at home is safer, healthier and most appropriate. I also urge Nigerians to strictly abide by the directives given by the Federal Government as another mechanism to contain the spread of the disease. “It is our responsibility to see that this deadly COVID-19 is fought from all angles, to have a safer and healthier society. “We thank Almighty Allah that up to this time, there is no reported case in Kano. May Allah save those from other states in the country and other affected nations of the world,” he prayed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .