Isoko North leaders donate to Delta communities
Enugu residents and the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) in the state have commended the Enugu North Council for closing the tomato section of Akwatta Market in Ogbete Main Market, describing the action as worthwhile. They applauded the state government for closing markets in the state as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Guardian recalled that Chairman of Enugu North Council, Emeka Onunze, on March 23, 2020, shut down the Akwatta Market, in response to the poor hygiene of the sub-section of the Ogbete Main Market and its environmental consequences on the health and wellbeing of the people, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. A resident of New Haven, Chukwuemeka Okeke, said he was impressed that the state government took a “decisive decision to ensure that COVID-19 does not spread in this state.” A trader at Abakpa Nike Market, Mrs. Ngozi Amanze, said, “I support closure of the markets to save our people from the deadly coronavirus. Though it may not be easy, but people have to be alive to make money.” Also speaking, State Chairman of NANS, Comrade Romanus Ogene, said the students were in support of precautionary measures being taken by the state government to contain COVID-19 in the state, including closure of Akwatta Market. Meanwhile, in a bid to cushion the effect of the lockdown against COVID-19 pandemic, political leaders of Isoko North Council in Delta State, have donated food items to the less privileged in the local government area. Items donated include 170 bags of rice, 91 bags of beans, 130 bags of garri, 260 cartons of Indomie and 65 bags of salt. Majority Leader of the state House of Assembly, Tim Owhefere, said the leaders came together to provide the palliatives for the people because they have their interest at heart. He said they were moved by the hunger in the land caused by the pandemic, adding, “As your representatives, we feel your pains in these trying times, hence we came together to provide these palliatives, which will go a long way to cushion the effect of government’s stay-at-home order. “What we are doing today is on behalf of the Isoko North political class under the leadership of Leo Ogor. All of us contributed this with support from Senator James Manager.” Responding, President-General of Isoķo Development Union (IDU), Chief Iduh Amadhe, commended the leaders for the gesture, adding that Isoko people were grateful for the donation, especially in these trying times. Earlier, Chairman of the Committee, Benson Eghaire, thanked the leaders for the donation and urged the President-Generals of the various communities to ensure that the items get to the needy in their domains. Responding, President-General of Ofagbe Kingdom, Matthew Akpofa appreciated the leaders for the gesture, assuring that they would do justice in the distribution of the items. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .