 Primate Ndukuba  The Primate of Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Most Revd. Henry C. Ndukuba made this known when he delivered his Easter message to the Church and nation. He urged believers to embrace God and not be moved by the pestilence all around. He said if the power of death could not hold Jesus, nor the conspiracy of the Jews or the guards at the tomb, nothing could stop God’s plan from coming to pass in their lives. Ndukuba, who is also the Archbishop of Abuja, admonished leaders to work together in fairness, love and unity, explaining that these times demand that people work together, even as they look unto Jesus so that they might be able to overcome the crises plaguing the world. “We need to encourage and support one another and hold unto Jesus Christ, knowing that we shall be raised with Him,” he said. Head of the Anglican Church charged Christians and Nigerians to commit themselves to those things that God created them for and live purposefully, just as Jesus did, by His death, burial and resurrection. He argued that in the course of duty to God and humanity, there is always a price to pay, and debunked the belief that the Christian journey is without suffering, stating that one must be prepared for suffering, sacrifice and even death. While assuring believers to trust God’s word, especially where He promised never to forsake His people, the Primate said: “Jesus rises from the dead. He is alive forevermore and He rules over all.” He said the fear of COVID-19 is the devil’s instrument to hold Christians down, but that believers must rejoice because Jesus has overcome the world and its difficulties. Charging Christians to seek a fresh encounter with the risen Lord, especially in light of the present challenges the Church is facing, whereby Christians cannot gather for service on Easter day, Ndukuba said: “We have perfect victory, because Jesus has risen from the dead.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .