Lawal Says Prayer Is Needed To Stop COVID-19 Crisis
Former International, Garba Lawal, has expressed regrets over the COVID-19 pandemic, which he said, has brought hardship to sports men and women, with the sporting and economic activities around the world grinding to a halt due to lockdown. Lawal, who said that the coronavirus pandemic has done a lot of damage to the sporting world, stated that prayer was now needed for God to show mercy on mankind so that everything would return to normalcy soonest. “The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is not only in sports but in every sector. You can see that every place is under lockdown for people to stay safe and remain alive. Nothing is working, no businesses and every activity grounded. “At this time of our lives, what we need to do is to pray to God to survive the situation. Staying safe is the most important thing for us now because at this moment as human beings there is nothing we can do than to hope that everything goes back to normal by God’s grace,” he said, adding that the lockdown experience has also not allowed clubs in Europe with Nigerians players to be monitored during league games. “Before the season was suspended, I watched matches of clubs that have Nigerian players to assess and recommend them for Super Eagles, aside also enjoying the beautiful game. Now, nothing seems to be working, as one cannot do anything, as people are dying everyday due to the pandemic crisis.” Lawal, a onetime utility player of the Super Eagles, was until recently the coach of Real Stars of Kaduna, a club formerly in the Nigeria National League (NNL). Speaking on his former club, the erstwhile player of Roda FC of The Netherland stated that he had to call it quits with the club when the players were owed about 13 months salary. “I had to vacate my post as the coach of Real Stars after a backlog of salaries owed players, and 13 months salary not paid to me. I told the owner of the club that I was tired of the whole thing. It was also due to debts to players that the club couldn’t take part in the NNL this season before it was suspended by the COVID-19 pandemic crisis.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .