• Umahi denies ordering shoot on the sight of escapees from isolation centres
• Anambra gets N50m support, rolls out palliative measures Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi yesterday said the state has earmarked N200m to cushion the effect of the hardship the people might experience during the shutdown period. Governor Umahi also cautioned against hoarding of food, drugs and other essential goods and services within the state, adding that refusal to provide food items, drugs and other essential goods and services within the state to enable citizens to buy them shall constitute an offence. He stated this in Abakaliki during the signing of the Ebonyi State Coronavirus Other Dangerous Infectious Diseases and Related Matters Law 005 of 2020 at the New Government House Complex, noting that his administration was all out to safeguard the people. The governor, however, refuted a report that he ordered security operatives to shoot on sight any of the arrested 37 returnees who entered the state through the bush after he ordered shut down of its borders while attempting to escape from a quarantine centre. Read More: Umahi signs COVID-19, Other Infectious Diseases Emergency Prevention Bill into law “I said I was isolating whoever escaped. We have 30 Ebonyi people who escaped through the bush. One trailer loaded them from the bush and we have seven persons from Abia, Cross River, Delta, Onitsha and Rivers. “So, we are taking the 37 of them and we have prepared an isolation centre in the stadium and we will feed them three times daily. The medical team will examine them and they will stay here for 14-days,” he explained. Meanwhile, the Anambra State government has received the support of N50 million to fight against Coronavirus pandemic. Governor Willie Obiano disclosed this in a statewide broadcast yesterday, saying the interventions came from good-spirited individuals and organisations. He said that based on feedback from the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Vin Okpala, the state has not recorded a case of Coronavirus. Obiano pointed out that the state has set up a 250-bed Isolation Centre at the NYSC Orientation Camp in Mbaukwu/Umuawulu and another 16-bed Isolation Centre at the General Hospital, Onitsha. He announced a stimulus package to cushion the effect by distributing 200 bags of rice to each of the 181 communities in the state to be shared among senior citizens from 70 years and above. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .