– Super Eagles Supporters Club ‘rescues’ 100 members Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa and members of his family have gone on self-isolation in line with government’s directive shortly on arrival from his base in Saudi Arabia. Musa has denied claims in some quarters that he has contracted COVID-19. In a post on his official Instagram handle, the former CSKA Moscow forward described the claims as “fake news.” The Eagles skipper lamented that at a time people were battling a pandemic, some individuals are bent on gaining popularity by spreading falsehood online. “It has come to my notice that certain individuals have decided to post false news about me testing positive to COVID-19,” Musa said. “This is a pandemic taking peoples lives in thousands; so it is said that some people want to use this to gain followers or views on their pages by spreading falsehood.” He explained that he came back from Saudi Arabia with his family and they went on self-isolation in line with the government’s directive. “My family and I came in from Saudi Arabia and decided to follow the government’s rule of isolation for 14 days, not because any of us have the virus. We are perfectly okay and have not tested positive to the virus,” he added. The 2013 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner, therefore, warned people not to fall for the malicious messages circulating about him and his family. “Stay safe, maintain social distancing,” he added. Meanwhile, the executive of the Super Eagles Supporters Club (SESC), has given financial support to 100 of its indigent members to cushion the hardship they are facing following the lockdown ordered by the federal government due to the coronavirus. According to the President of the SESC, Prince Vincent Okumagba, the Supporters Club, through the various State Chairmen, collated the list of some of their indigent members. “The members received various sums of money ranging from N5,000 to N10,000 which were credited directly to their accounts,” Okumagba told The Guardian yesterday. “We are aware that people are going through a lot of difficulties, but the idea was to help them to mitigate the effects of the lockdown.” He stated. Okumagba added that he raised the fund for the support saying: “There was support from a few other affluent members of the SESC. Being in the SESC has afforded the members opportunity to see each other as a family hence everyone looks out for the other.” “Members of the club have individually and collectively paid some price in supporting the nation’s interest hence it will be abnormal to abandon them at this difficult time,” he stated. According to Okumagba, the distribution of the palliative was handled by a committee selected from among the 28 State Chairmen of the Club from all the zones of the country. Okumagba advised members of the Super Eagles’ Supporters Club and Nigerians to totally adhere to all advice from medical personnel including the social distancing as well as keeping high-level personal hygiene to curtain the spread of the coronavirus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .