 (FILES) In this file photo US President Donald Trump gestures as he speaks during the daily briefing on the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, in the Brady Briefing Room at the White House on March 31, 2020, in Washington, DC. – President Donald Trump warned Iran on April 1, 2020, of a “heavy price” if it or its allies in Iraq attack US troops stationed there. “If this happens, Iran will pay a very heavy price, indeed!” Trump tweeted. The US president also wrote: “Upon information and belief, Iran or its proxies are planning a sneak attack on US troops and/or assets in Iraq.” (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)  “Unlike the US — which surreptitiously lies, cheats & assassinates — Iran only acts in self-defence,” Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted. “Don’t be misled by usual warmongers, AGAIN,” he wrote, also cautioning that “Iran starts no wars, but teaches lessons to those who do”. Tensions have risen sharply between Tehran and Washington ever since Trump withdrew from a landmark nuclear agreement and reimposed sweeping sanctions in 2018. They escalated in January when the US killed Iran’s Major General Qasem Soleimani in a Baghdad drone strike, following attacks on its troops in Iraq that Washington blamed on Iran-backed armed groups. Iran retaliated by firing at bases in Iraq housing US troops. Trump warned Iran on Wednesday that it would pay a “heavy price” in the event of further attacks on US troops. He tweeted that “upon information and belief, Iran or its proxies are planning a sneak attack on U.S. troops and/or assets in Iraq.” In response, Zarif wrote on Twitter that “Iran has FRIENDS: No one can have MILLIONS of ‘proxies'” Iran and the US are in a tense battle for influence in Iraq, where Tehran has powerful allies and Washington has close ties to the government. Bases housing US troops and foreign embassies, particularly the American mission, have been targeted in more than two dozen rocket strikes since late October. The attacks, which the US has blamed on Iran-backed armed groups, have prompted fears of a proxy war on Iraqi soil. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .