Mercy Eke | Image sourced from Sideomex Entertainment Winner of the 2019 edition of Big Brother Naija reality TV show Mercy Eke has revealed that her mother tried to abort her while pregnant. The reality TV star disclosed this during the premiere of her joint reality TV show “Mercy and Ike” with fellow Big Brother Naija star Ike. According to Mercy, her mother was questioned about why she was pregnant with another child considering the number of children she already had. Mercy went on to reveal that her mother threw herself down from a tree in an attempt to terminate her pregnancy. She said: “My mom told me that, when she was carrying me, there was this aunt of mine, my dad’s cousin, who came and asked her, ‘Are you still pregnant after all these kids you have?” “That really got my mom trying to abort me. My mum told that what she did was when she goes to the farm, she would climb a tree and intentionally fall from there to see if she could get rid of me. “When she told me that, I had told myself that I had to make it, whatever it took to be somebody. I had to make her proud somehow for what she did for me.” Mercy and Ike reality TV show follows the love life of Mercy Eke, the winner of Big Brother Naija Season 4 and Ike Onyema, her fellow housemate, who began a relationship during their time at the Big Brother house. Their unlikely bond during the show makes for a great love story as they continued to entertain viewers with their pranks and an affection that took everyone by surprise. Mercy became the first female housemate to win the Big Brother Naija and since leaving the house, she has gone on to sign endorsement deals. She has been trailed with her fair share of controversy since hitting stardom notable among which is her perceived rivalry with a fellow contestant on the Big Brother Naija show, Tacha. A quarrel between Mercy and Tacha ten days before the end of the reality show had led to the disqualification who already had strikes against her. Mercy went on to win the show and fans haven’t stopped pitting the two women against each other.