Jean Paul Mira and Camille Locht Irate social media users have slammed two French doctors Jean Paul Mira and Camille Locht for saying that treatment for novel coronavirus should first be tested in Africa. The medical experts said this while on live television citing the use of prostitutes in Africa to carry out test vaccines for the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) as an instance.  One of the doctors, Mira who is the Head of Resuscitation Department at Cochin Hospital, expressed the opinion that Africa is a good continent to try the drug because of its perceived toughness to disease outbreaks. Watch the video below:  The video was translated by Rim-Sarah Alouane, who quoted them to have said; Dr Mira: “If I can be provocative, shouldn’t we do this study in Africa, where there are no masks, no treatment, no resuscitation, a bit like it has been done in some studies in AIDS, where among prostitutes, we try things, because they are exposed, and they don’t protect themselves, what do you think?” Dr Locht: “So you are right[…]we’re thinking in parallel to a study in Africa precisely to make this same type of approach w/ BCG [vaccine]placebo, I think there is a call for tenders that were released or that will be released & I think we will indeed srsly think about that too” Responding to the video, the Chief Executive of the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, FCCPC, Babatunde Irukera wrote; “We will be looking out for you when you arrive. Please consult Pfizer for their experience with their TROVAN trial in Kano;1996 resolved 14 years later in 2010.If you can’t find them, google it. Whichever way, hide real well cos, we are on the lookout if NIGERIA is on your radar. They will be well advised to research the Pfizer case and my credentials in this types of matters. It will be a colossal error of judgment to do a trial here that doesn’t comply with the full ethical & safety protocols including “informed” consent. There’s a precedent already.” Below are some reactions to the video:       