Governor Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday confirmed an index case of the novel coronavirus in Delta State, adding that the patient had been quarantined in a centre at Warri. This comes on the heels of Tuesday’s announcement by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) of a confirmed case in the state. The governor, in a broadcast yesterday in Asaba, commended Deltans who had strictly adhered to the lockdown that came into effect on April 1, threatening sanctions for those disobeying the sit-at-home order. On the victim, Okowa clarified: “The person in question has been in Delta for some weeks, so, he did not just come in from another state during the course of the lockdown. At the moment, we are doing our tracking. We are getting more information on the case and when we have more information, we would be able to communicate with the state. But, it is the right of that person only to be able to publicly tell us that he or she is infected.” The governor further said: “For the doubting Thomases, COVID-19 is real. It is not for the rich or the poor; it could affect anybody, and I will appreciate it if all Deltans would have this at the back of their minds that anybody and everybody is vulnerable. We are on Day 8 of the lockdown, and I know that a lot of our people have been cooperating with the directive of the government. “Unfortunately, a few persons have tended to disobey orders and I want to urge every Deltan that from today onwards until the 14 days, to please, for the sake of everyone, for the sake of humanity, obey the orders of government, otherwise, they will be caught up by the arms of the law.” He added: “For those who feel sick or have a fever or cough or you feel breathless or unable to breathe, it is important that you do not hide at home; call the numbers we have released to each and every one of us and those numbers have also been released to all our council chairmen. “These are four dedicated numbers: 08031230480; 08031230481; 08031230528; and 08031230529. You can call and you will be directed on what to do. “You can also call your councilors, who have been instructed by the council chairmen and they will also direct you on what to do, especially for those with the symptoms such as fever, cough and breathlessness.” The governor also debunked insinuation concerning a member of the Delta House of Assembly of Delta relating to contraction of the virus, insisting:  “No member of the House of Assembly has contracted Covid-19.” However, the state government has set up courts in the three senatorial districts to prosecute and sentence violators of its stay-at-home order. The Chief Judge, Justice Marshal Umukoro, inaugurated the courts yesterday in Asaba. Accordingly, the Magistrate’s Court 1 in Asaba would hear and determine cases emanating from Delta North. The Chief Magistrate’s Court 1, Ughelli is to hear and dispense with issues from Delta Central, while the Chief Magistrate’s Court 1, Warri would tackle those of Delta South. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .