The Ramadan edition of the emergency neighbourhood food markets for residents of Lagos State essentially to address the problem associated with the lockdown and the promotion of social distancing in the fight against the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 comes up on Wednesday, April 22. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Prince Gbolahan Lawal, in a statement, yesterday, explained that the neighbourhood food markets would hold in 27 selected public schools within 14 local government areas of the state. Lawal pointed out that the neighbourhood food markets were basically set up in order to provide Lagosians access to food supplies during the lockdown with a view to preventing panic buying in line with the governor’s directives closing all markets and stores trading in non-essential commodities. He added that the makeshift markets within the neighbourhood are platforms for families that do not have the capacity to buy foodstuffs in bulk to have access to a market during the current lockdown in the state. The Commissioner explained that the markets would enable shoppers to buy produce and other everyday needs such as beverages, vegetables, fish, poultry products, bread and other essential needs at competitive, affordable and farm gate prices. According to him, the selected schools within which the markets are situated are St Jude Primary School, Ilasamaja; Ilupeju Primary School, Town Planning Way, Illupeju; Papa Ajao Primary School all in Mushin Local Government; Local Government Primary School, Idimu; Meiran Community Primary School, Meiran in the Alimosho Local Government area; Sijuade Primary School, Ijesatedo; Lagos Progressive Primary School, Mbah Street, Surulere; Obele Secondary School, Lawanson; and Aguda Grammar School, Aguda all in the Surulere Local Government area. Others are Ikeja Primary School; Opebi Primary School, Ikeja; United Christian Primary School, Marine Beach; Ijora Oloye Primary School; Ire Akari Nursery and Primary School II, Iganmu all in the Apapa Local Government Area of the State; St Jude Primary School, Ebute Meta; Fagba Junior Grammar School, Iju; Stadium Junior Grammar School, Ifako; Ikota Primary School, Lekki-Epe Expressway, Ikota; St George’s Primary School, Ikoyi; Araromi Baptist School, Beckley Road; Lagos Island; St Emmanuel Primary School, Ogudu; Ajao Estate School, Anthony; Sam Ethnan Airforce Base, Ikeja and Ejigbo Model Primary School, Ejigbo. He noted that other schools are St Theresa Roman Catholic Primary School, Epe; Awolowo Way, Oke Oyinbo, Epe; Anglican Primary School, Aradagun/Mosafejo Aworo/Ajido Road, Badagry; and Government Technical College, Awolowo Way, Oke Ota-Ona, Ikorodu. The Commissioner urged Muslims to use the opportunity of this year’s Ramadan for inner reflection, self-discipline and self-improvement by offering prayers to God for the end of the current COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos State in particular and the world in general. Meanwhile, the Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC)  has advised market sellers to ensure strict compliance with the social distancing directive in order to curtail the spread of the coronavirus in the state. This is contained in a statement signed by the Head, Public Affairs Unit, Mr. Adebayo Kehinde on Monday and made available to newsmen in Lagos. Kehinde said that the agency’s Corps Marshal, CP Gbemisola Akinpelu (rtd) dropped the warning at the Command Headquarters, Bolade, Oshodi on Monday morning. According to Kehinde, this measure is necessary to break the cycle of transmission of the deadly pandemic adding that defaulters of the directives will be appropriately sanctioned by the State Government. “Over crowded areas such as market places will help to increase the spread of this pandemic if social distancing is not adhered to. This will pose a great danger to the effort of the State Government at combatting the spread of the virus. “Besides, the Commissioner, Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources has directed the immediate shutdown of such markets that disobey the directives,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .