 Judith Omonua<br />  According to the information shared on Instagram by the deceased’s sister, Judith had been battling with a heart condition, which led to heart failure for three years. “Her situation got worse and she was confined to a wheelchair and also constantly weak from the drips administered on her. However, she had hope that she could beat the condition after she was told she could have an implant to reduce the strain on her heart.” Unfortunately, the operation could not be carried out as a result of the lockdown and it had to be after the lockdown. The lockdown seemed never-ending and the young lady started to lose hope of ever getting better and hinting that she was tired of life. Judith was later found dead in her bedroom by her sister. The information about the hospital where the scheduled surgery was to take place was not shared. Meanwhile, tragedy struck in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital yesterday when a 59-year-old unmarried woman, Victoria Yemisi Omoare, reportedly slumped and died while urinating. It was gathered that the incident occurred at about 9:45a.m. at Ilokun area close to Abattoir, along the busy Ado-Iworoko road. Narrating the incident, Mr. Orimaye Oluwafemi, said the deceased who alighted from his vehicle died while urinating. Oluwafemi said he was going to the Ekiti State University campus to fetch some waterleaf in his farm and withdraw some money at the ATM when the woman and a student, both his neighbours, opted to follow him. He said the incident happened close to the university gate when he stopped by the roadside to take a photograph of a tree plant he could use for his thesis and the woman seized the opportunity to answer the call of nature in a nearby bush. He added that they waited for her return for about five minutes in his car before they found out that the woman had slumped and died. According to him, the Akoko-born woman was a teacher at Adegbola Memorial High School, Akure in Ondo State and had been staying with his family in Ado-Ekiti before coronavirus pandemic was confirmed in Ekiti, though he didn’t know any of her family members. He disclosed that the unmarried woman just finished her PHD course and recently complained about abdominal pain a day after she completed three-day fasting. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .