Kylie Jenner | pinterest The world’s youngest self-made billionaire Kylie Jenner is giving fans a peek into some of her intimate secrets as she has shared some bedroom secrets. The mother of one who is rumoured to have reunited her with ex-boyfriend Travis Scott agreed to take part in her pal Stassie Karanikolaou’s #DoYourPart Instagram Live series and there were some racy questions being asked. They had a game of Would You Rather and 22-year-old Jenner wasn’t about to avoid anything coming her way. The Instagram chat revealed more about the star. Kylie admitted that she thrives when people find her jokes funny. “It gives me life,” she smirked as she fielded questions from her friend as the pair raised some much-needed money. Asked if she would rather her partner “have a weird accent when having sex or be completely silent”, she said she would rather have sex in total silence. Smiling, Kylie responded: “I would rather he be completely silent.” Her friend appeared surprised, saying “really?” Kylie added: “Unless he had a weird accent, like naturally. If he had an accent, then fine. “If he didn’t have an accent and then when we’re intimate, he starts talking in a weird accent -absolutely not!” The questions got even steamier as Stassie asked Kylie on whether she would prefer to “walk around the supermarket in your lingerie or walk around the mall with a strap on?” She replied quickly, not giving it a second thought. “Lingerie in the supermarket because we do that anyway,” said the star as she smiled at her friend. Although Kylie is yet to confirm if she is back with her rapper baby daddy, there have been several speculations as to the state of their relationship. A source told Mirror: “Kris doesn’t want anyone jerking her daughters around – she’s told Travis to put a ring on it and commit to a second baby. “Kylie would never put down rules like that, but she’s made no secret about wanting another baby and commitment from him. “She really looks up to Kim and her marriage and big family with Kanye – it’s her dream – so Kris is right – he needs to commit!” 