All seems not to be going well in the fold of People Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State. Governor Ben Ayade, on one hand, is pitched against his predecessor, Senator Liyel Imoke, most National Assembly members from the state, and founding members of the party, on the other, as congresses into Wards, Chapter and State are threatening the soul of the party. As tension mounts, the state congresses scheduled for March 24 has been postponed indefinitely. Ayade, according to top sources, is bent on dismantling the old and founding members of the party, led by Imoke that put Ayade in office since 2015 and in his second term in 2019. Imoke and others in the old block were alleged to have plotted to deny Ayade the party’s ticket for his second term, but for pleadings and interventions from some quarters. But that move was suspended but he (Ayade) was denied the opportunity of deciding who got the party’s tickets for other positions like Senate and House of Representatives. His sin was that he never supported the structure that produced the current National Chairman, Mr. Uche Secondus. Apparently not happy with that situation, Ayade had in a ceremony during the launch of the now crippling State Microfinance Bank in 2018, described PDP as a party that is “unfair and has got no conscience”. Ayade, who was bitter at the disqualification of his friend, Mr. Chris Agara, from the Cross River Central PDP Senatorial primary said, “in spite of it all, that he has spent more money than any other candidate in this state, a party that is so unfair and has got no conscience, a man came ready for the election and you take out his name from the ballot. You take out his name because you know he is too powerful. When people use God-given opportunities to do injustice, injustice would wait for them”. Top PDP members in the state said Ayade wants to take revenge on the party’s founding members and their supporters by dismantling all of Imoke’s structures in the state and ensuring that all the executive members from the wards to the state levels are his people so as to make way for him (Ayade) to easily install a successor in 2023. As part of the strategy, all PDP’s chairmen and councillorship candidates for the local government elections are said to be Ayade’s men thus forcing other aggrieved members to challenge in court the way and manner the candidates emerged. Stakeholders and some of the National Assembly members represented by Movement for the Restoration of Cross River PDP (MFTROCR) said, “The governor is alleged to have compiled all the names of 18 local government chairmen and 197 councilors, without any input from the National Assembly and founding members.”  “He then slapped me; my phone fell. He grabbed me by the neck and was strangling me as I was gasping for air and getting unconscious. So, other members of the committee rushed in to rescue me and he began to fight them”. Also reacting yesterday to the allegation that he beat up Ikem, Eba-Ogar, who is said to be the governor’s candidate and director-general in charge of the Due Process office said, “Why will I beat him up? If he is contesting for state chairmanship of PDP, which I am also running for, does that make me his enemy to beat him up?
 
“Let him tell you people what happened. Where was he? What did he go there to do? Who did he try to strangle – Amina (Arong)? If Amina’s boy who was there prevented him from killing his own boss, he shouldn’t rope us in because he feels I am running election with him.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .