The Federal Government through the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has received $1.5 million worth of ventilators, 36,000 testing kits as well as 331, 000  Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) comprising N95 Masks as part of efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19. The new donation also included the payment of an initial N1billion  pledge by Flour Mills of Nigeria Group (FMN Group) to the Federal Government  through a Central Bank of Nigeria-led Nigerian Private Sector Coalition against COVID-19 initiative. The current move being led by Chairman of FMN Group John Coumantaros and the entire group, equally involved the leadership of NCDC, Ministry of Finance, FMN vendors from five nations, multiple logistics partners, and a team drawn from the FMN group’s operational leadership, the Group’s Chief Operating Officer, Boye Olusanya said in Abuja. He said the medical supplies, which has started arriving in Nigeria since April 18 in batches would be completely delivered by the end of April. Olusanya equally said the group has commenced deployment of N400 million worth of food relief packages to vulnerable communities most affected by the lockdown in 11 states across the country. According to him, when fully delivered, the medical supplies will facilitate 100 per day field-testing capacity and 35,000 laboratory-based testing capacity in Nigeria. Olusanya added that the supplies also included 331,000 pieces of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) comprising N95 Masks, Coveralls, Protective gloves, and Protective eyewear enough to provide regular use for 10,000 Nigerian health care professionals for over two months. He said there are also 75 ventilators, which would boost Nigeria’s total stock to ramp up the capacity in Nigeria. “The safety of Nigerians is paramount to us. So we encourage all Nigerians to adhere to the necessary protective measures against the virus and its spread,” Olusanya stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .