The Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos, was agog recently, as talented rapper, Phyno, took his turn on the Trace Live Concert stage. Themed after the artiste’s album, Deal With It, the night, which was initially threatened by COVID-19 scare, turned out to be a blast; the Alobam crooner set the stage on fire. Fully aware of the situation on ground, Trace Music, organsiers of the gig, ensured temperature of all guests were taken and their hands sanitized before they were allowed access to the red carpet area, which lasted for hours. The session was also an opportunity for LG Electronics, one of the sponsors of the show, to sample their latest sound systems, while Lord Dry Gin and Pepsi entertained guests with assorted drinks. The long wait eventually came to an end, when guests were ushered into the Arena for the live concert. However, it was comedian Pencil, who got the first slot to entertain the audience with his jaw breaking jokes. As expected, coronavirus provided enough material for the comedian to engage the audience, before a raffle draw that saw some lucky individuals smile home with new LG sound systems. In company of his session men, who played live, Phyno made his way to the stage, amid cheers from the excited crowd; they had waited for hours to watch him perfrom live. In his usual style, the Enugu brought up got the crowd dancing and singing along, as he belted out hits after hits from his rich repertoire. From Alobam to Obago, One time, Get the Info, Parcel, Link up, Isi Ego, Konnect, guests got more than they expected. With some of his men, including Kcee, Emoney and Paul ‘Rudeboy’ Okoye, who turned out to be his chief cheerleaders for the night, Phyno brought his A-game on stage. In-between his performance, Phyno openly thanked Jude for giving him N1million to shoot his music video, which he never collected back. TRACELive celebrates the beauty of music by highlighting a blend of sweet vocals, live instruments, dancers, and an energetic audience. The concert had in the past featured the likes of Flavour, Omawumi, Falz, Adekunle Gold, 2Baba, Wande Coal, Reekado Banks, Runtown, Simi, Reminisce and others.