It is finger of God, says cleric Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has allayed the fear of Nigerians over the coronavirus pandemic, saying that their faith in God would defeat the virulent disease. In a statement issued to journalists yesterday in Akure by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr. Segun Ajiboye, Akeredolu greeted all Christians on the occasion of this year’s Easter celebration and urged the people to continue to pray without ceasing against the deadly COVID-19, assuring them that the virus would be defeated and the people would sing a song of victory. “Christians should see the stay-at-home order as a sacrifice to contain the spread of the virus, just as Jesus gave His life to save the world. They should emulate the virtues and preaching of Jesus Christ and celebrate Easter with moderation. We would bounce back stronger from the pains inflicted by COVID-19 with the resurrection of Christ.” Also, the Bishop of the Anglican Diocese on the Coast in Okitipupa Local Government, Rt. Rev. Oluseyi Pirisola, said only strong faith in God would help the society overcome the ravaging coronavirus. In his Easter message, the bishop urged all men, irrespective of religion, to humble themselves before God who Has the unquestionable power to cause anything to happen and also can be merciful to order any pestilence to stop, to vanish, no matter the havoc it could have wreaked. “What you see now is finger of God. We should humble ourselves before Him and seriously beg for forgiveness. God is affirming His supremacy and He can do that in any way for the world to constantly accord Him the respect and adoration He truly deserves. “We have directed all our priests to pray constantly for God to order an end to this pandemic, the solution of which now seems to be beyond the knowledge of man.” Bishop Pirisola urged the government and the rich to come to the aid of the poor and vulnerable residents of the state to prevent the spread of the disease. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .