– Keep off the case, PPRO warns journalist The family of the late Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Obudu Local Government Area in Cross River State, Superintendent of Police (SP) Gabriel Amawu, is suspecting foul play in the account by the police in Cross River as to the cause of death of the officer who died from gunshots wounds. While the Cross River State command of the police said the DPO died from an accidental gun discharge, the family suspects foul play in the report, alleging that the DPO may have been secretly killed by his colleagues while on duty. The family has therefore petitioned the Inspector General of Police (IGP) to cause a ballistic/forensic investigation into the cause of the young officer’s death. In the petition, also sent to the Attorney General of Federation (AGF), the States Security Services (SSS); and National Human Rights Commission, a copy of which was obtained by The Guardian in Abuja, the deceased family averred that there were strong indications to suggest that their son was murdered in cold blood by his subordinate whom they claim had before the said ugly incident attempted in the past to put him in harm’s way when they withdrew and left him alone to face the firing powers of armed robbers within the Obudu police division’s area of operation. The family further stated in its petition that as a result of that incident and some others, their late son complained to the Commissioner of Police in Calabar of being unsecured and requested for a transfer from the Obudu Division, adding that the late officer was still awaiting the outcome of the transfer before the death by gunshots directed at the late officer’s vital region, hence, according to the family, it could not have been accidental discharges but a deliberate action to kill the officer. When The Guardian contacted the spokesperson of Cross Rivers State Police Command, DSP Irene Ugbo, on the matter, she warned newsmen to keep off the case, as they have no business prying into police affairs. According to her, “Oga Amawu’s death is accidental discharge. I don’t know when the death of a police officer became journalist’s business. What do you want to know? What do you want to know?” She then hung up the phone on the reporter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .