Adebayo The Federal Government has urged local auto manufacturers to modify their operations to produce more ventilators for the health system. The government further said that the local production of ventilators had become imperative because it is one of the critical equipment for the treatment of COVID-19 pandemic. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, made this known yesterday, while briefing journalists on latest government efforts to curtail the negative impact of coronavirus pandemic on the manufacturing, trade and other related sectors of the economy. According to him, the ministry is mobilising the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration Control (NAFDAC) as well as the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), to speed up certification procedures for essential items needed by Nigerians in preventing the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Through collaboration with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the minister said the two organisations would also help to identify and augment the list of essential goods and services needed to tackle the pandemic. He listed some of the items to include hand sanitizers, face masks, needles, goggles, gloves, sodium hypo chloride and digital thermometers. Adebayo said: “We are engaging our indigenous car manufacturers at this time to prepare themselves to tweak their operations to begin the manufacture of made-in-Nigeria ventilators – a critical medical equipment in the fight against the virus.” The minister also said that the impact of the pandemic had reinforced the need for a post-COVID-19 committee that would address challenges as the nation prepared for the future. Also speaking at the media briefing, the President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Mansur Ahmed, said Nigerian manufacturers had been producing over 27 million masks monthly as against the two million that it produced previously.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .