– Benue to review COVID-19 measures Victims Support Fund (VSF) Task Force on COVID-19 will distribute food items and medial consumables to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and the vulnerable in North East. The IDPs were sacked from their ancestral homes in Borno, Adamawa, Taraba and Yobe states by Boko Haram. Head of VSF Task Force on COVID-19, Mrs. Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, disclosed yesterday in Maiduguri that critical stakeholders and partners in insurgency-affected states would be provided with medical consumables to prevent coronavirus into IDP camps. “We’ll distribute a unit each of 10kg bags of rice, beans, maize, four litres of cooking oil and two kilogrammes of salt to the IDPs in camps and host communities,” she said. She added that the task force had also developed sensitisation packages for the IDP camps and host communities of
Maiduguri, Dalori, Dikwa, Pulka, Monguno and Gwoza, a border community
with Cameroon. According to her, the sensitisation campaigns were to inform and educate the IDPs on the need to observe hygiene and to prevent further spread of the deadly virus. “We’ll continue to work to provide succour to victims of insurgency and armed conflict in Nigeria, especially in the areas of livelihood and recovery,” she said. Meanwhile, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom has reassured that he will meet with the COVID-19 Action Committee today to review the measures put in place to prevent the spread of the pandemic in the state. Ortom said the meeting, which was to hold on Monday, April 13, had been shifted to Wednesday, as a result of the public holiday. The governor appreciated Benue people for their understanding and cooperation, which, he noted, significantly complemented the efforts of the state government against the virus. He called for sustained cooperation from the people in the face of the dusk-to-dawn curfew, closure of markets and other public places.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .