Jackline Torori weds Job Mogire | SDE The coronavirus outbreak has affected many important social activities all over the world and that is no excluding weddings. For a couple, Jackline Torori and Job Mogire, their wedding will forever remain memorable and not just because it is their special day but the peculiarity of the wedding. The Kenyan couple recently tied the know at Angaza SDA Church in Kaptembwa, Nakuru, Kenya. The wedding witnessed a small group gathering and followed the rules set to contain the spread of Covid-19. At the church entrance, attendants washed and sanitised people’s hands. The groom and bride arrived in separate cars and after sanitising their hands were ushered into the church with the wedding presided over by three pastors. A group of less than 15 witnessed the mask-wearing couple exchange their vows under a strict social distancing setting.  At the pew were four chairs and a wooden table. The groom, bride, best maid and best man sat separately. Only their parents and a few witnesses were allowed in the church. The rest of the people, less than five, followed the proceedings from outside. Jackline Torori weds Job Mogire | SDE The couple exchanged vows while facing each other with the groom slightly bending over to lift the veil off the bride’s face. Speaking about his wedding, Mogire said: “We have always looked forward to our wedding and our plans started in November. We had a budget of more than Sh500,000. We wanted to invite many people. Despite the pandemic, we thought the wedding could still go on uninterrupted because love conquers all. “It has been a happy occasion. We will have a bigger party once the pandemic is over “We will spend our honeymoon at home and respect the stay at home orders,” Mogire said. On his part, the presiding pastor, Samuel Mwaniki, said: “Love reigns even in tough times like this. Today, we will not have much time to talk but we will go straight to the ceremony.” At the event, no cake was cut. Only certificates were signed before the closing photo sessions. 