The British High Commission in Nigeria Tuesday said it will commence the airlifting of that Britons in Nigeria, who wish to return to the UK amid the coronavirus pandemic will on April 18. Flights are expected to depart Lagos and Abuja, two cities that currently under lockdown. “Our first flights are expected to leave both Lagos and Abuja on Saturday 18 April with a further flight from Lagos on 20 April,” the British Mission said in a statement. “You will not be able to pick your departure date – the online booking process will generate it automatically.” The mission further stated that vulnerable people including those with underlying health conditions and those who are visitors to Nigeria would be prioritised. It also stated that those who would want to be evacuated will be required to pay for their flight tickets. “Anyone flying back to the UK on an HMG chartered flight will need to pay for their own ticket,” the mission said. It said, More flights will follow, depending on demand and noted that to be eligible for a flight your primary residence has to be in the UK. “We are coordinating with the Federal and State government to help ensure that those of you who are outside of Abuja and Lagos can get to the airports despite the lockdown,” the mission said. Other countries like France, Germany and the United States of America have evacuated their citizen from Nigeria since the country recorded her first case of coronavirus in February. Almost 2 million cases of coronavirus have been reported globally with Nigeria recording 343 cases, 11 deaths, and 90 recoveries as at Tuesday, April 13. In other to curb the spread of the coronavirus in the country, The Federal Government had lately restricted all local and international flights as part of efforts to slow the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Only essential flights, which include cargo services, emergency landing, and evacuation, among others, were allowed though subject to the approval of the Minister of Aviation. Also, Lagos State, Ogun State, and the capital city Abuja have been shut down for more than two weeks. Other Nigerian states have also announced some measures to curb the spread of the virus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .