 Wale Oshun  Coming in the cusp of some impactful developments in the polity, especially the redeployment of Major General Olusegun Adeniyi, the creation of a regional security outfit and leadership crisis within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), reminiscences of the exploits of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) would have touched on my issues of national interest.
  
In the first place, it would have helped to deepen public knowledge on how the interplay of public intellectuals and social activists combined to make Southwest of Nigeria the hotbed of the country’s politics. Secondly, it would have sent out warning signals that the Southwest geopolitical zone has gone through some unsavoury historical experiences that do not deserve a repeat in Nigeria’s march towards true nationhood.
  
However, no thanks to the Coronavirus thrombosis cautions the need for social distancing and abolition of crowds, the 70th anniversary of Wale Oshun, which could have passed as a NADECO ‘ambush’, but it did not hold. But prior to the postponement or cancellation, elaborate arrangements had been made, invitations sent out and keynote speaker readied with his ‘recapitulations’.  Those were the key lofty posers set out by the former INEC commissioner.Before delving into the issues, Olurode asserted that “it is not surprising that in most of Africa, political leaders are generally distrusted and hated for not being nation-builders. (Because) Rather than embarking on policies that narrow the wedge between groups, they actively pursue divisions and promote differences.” From NADECO days to APC
THE crisis in APC, which the Southwest helped to access presidential powers, seems to have reignited concerns about the place of the region in Nigerian politics. Is the Southwest programmed to play the continuous role of opposition rather than being at the helms of affairs of governance of the country?
  
That question comes to light based on speculations that the incumbent Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, is not having the free expression of his fullest potential as the nation’s number two in the country’s leadership organogram. That seeming short shrift has subtly stoked conversations around the recapitulation of similar distasteful experiences from past seconds-in-commands, including Col. Tunde Idiagbon and General Oladipo Diya, during the military interregnum, as well as the flagrant dispossession of Abiola from enjoying the fruits of his perceived electoral victory in 1993.   
  
What is the import of ideas, which the Yoruba of Southwest largely espouse in politics, in the country’s march to egalitarian social structure and democratic culture? That question must have informed Prof. Olurode’s formulation of a second related question: “Whether Yoruba nationalism can have an independent existence within Nigeria or rather, whether the two phenomena can co-exist?  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .