• Commercial buses to operate 60 per cent capacity
• Civil servants on Level 1-12 to work from home
• Schools, religious activities stay closed
• 49 COVID-19 patients discharged from the isolation Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday released details of how businesses would operate next week when the lockdown is relaxed. He said companies that choose to work within the controlled easing phase must operate from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., deploying only 60 per cent of their staff capacity. Open markets and stores would function daily from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. on selected days. There would be an overnight curfew from 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. except for essential services. “This means that from the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., we expect all Lagosians to stay in their homes,” the governor said. He said persons visiting these markets and stores would be required to observe precautionary measures of social distancing and hygiene. Read More: Okada operations suspended as Lagos reels out guidelines “easing” lockdown “Malls will be allowed to open with the proviso that stores in the malls maintain a 60 per cent occupancy capacity, while also ensuring that a two-metre social distancing is maintained between every person and the next. Hand sanitisers and/or washbasins must be provided at all entry points, and temperature checks must be carried out.” He said public officers from Grade Levels 1-12 should work from home unless otherwise directed by their accounting officers. For those on Grade Levels, 13 and above, accounting officers would carry out a needs assessment of critical staff, identify essential officers and draw up a flexible work roster in compliance with social distancing principles.  “All food handlers and staff of eateries are expected to have gone through exhaustive health checks and must also practise high levels of personal and hand hygiene in serving members of the public. Food handlers are also mandated to wear masks and hand gloves at all times, particularly during the preparation and serving of food. Sanwo-Olu. Photo: TWITTER/JIDESANWOOLU  On public transportation, he said: “All buses should be loaded to a maximum of 60 per cent capacity. This means that if a bus normally takes 10 people at full capacity, during this period, no more than six persons can be allowed to board at any point in time. “Whistleblowers are encouraged to report companies that flout these directives. Our whistleblower channels will be duly communicated to the public. Whistleblowers are guaranteed full protection. Their identities will be kept strictly confidential. “All entertainment centres such as event centres, cinemas, arcades, bars, casinos, day clubs, nightclubs and beaches will remain closed till further notice. Swimming pools, gyms, barbershops, spas, beauty salons, and all public parks, including those in private and residential estates, will continue to remain closed for another two weeks.” He said following this, the government would “review and advise on the permissible opening date for these establishments. Residents’ associations should, please, enjoin their members as well as operators of businesses within their association to adhere to these directives.” The governor further revealed that 49 COVID-19 patients were discharged yesterday. They consisted of 48 Nigerians and a Greek national. “Of these are 28 females and 21 males. Sadly, we have lost 19 people, while we currently have 682 active cases,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .