coronavirus helmet New scare tactics to warn people off the streets and stay indoors amidst the coronavirus pandemic has been implemented by a policeman in India. The country has reportedly been placed on a 21-day lockdown to avoid the spread of coronavirus. Nevertheless, some people have not adhered to the government’s stay home policy and such individuals still roam the streets of India. In a bid to control the movement of people outdoors and take the stay-home policy seriously. Rajesh Babu, an Indian police officer don a helmet made with spiky thorns, to look like the visual representation of coronavirus. This look-like coronavirus helmet frightens people away whenever he is seen on patrol. Speaking on the idea behind the coronavirus look-like helmet, Babu to Asian News International said : “We take all the steps but still people come out on the streets. Therefore, this Corona helmet is one of the steps we are taking to ensure that people are aware of the seriousness of the police. The helmet is an attempt to do something different. When I wear this, the thought of coronavirus comes into the minds of commuters. Especially, the children react strongly after seeing this and want to be taken home”. More so, he added that the helmet was created by a local artist Gowtham, with the use of paper. Covered in red spikes with bulbs on the end, the helmet is meant to look like the microscopic image of coronavirus. Artist B. Gowtham, from Chennai, designed the helmet as he thought people weren’t taking the virus seriously enough as they couldn’t see it — so he decided to create something they wouldn’t be able to ignore. “We have government orders not to come out — but still, we’re seeing people roaming here and there without proper safety equipment, without masks.” According, to India times the total number of coronavirus positive cases has risen to 4,281 in India with a total number of 111 recorded deaths. Furthermore, in a bid to prevent people from coming out of their homes, the state has reportedly built a massive delivery system for the delivery of milk, vegetables, and groceries.