Nigerian Police Force has said its men arrested 620 violators of lockdown order including about 39 suspects arrested in a hotel for clubbing and striptease. Bala Elkana, the Lagos police spokesman, said out of the 620 violators arrested during the week, about 288 of them were arrested during the weekend. Elkana said 39 clubbers were arrested on Friday night in total violation of the lockdown order and social distancing regulations. Also on Friday, Suleiman Abubakar, the Imam of Sheik Central Mosque, Mile 12 Ketu was arrested for holding evening prayers (Maghrib and Isha prayers – Muslim evening and night-time prayer) in the mosque with a large number of worshippers in violation of the social distancing regulations. But earlier during the week, Elkana said 95 inter states travellers and drivers of seven commercial buses were intercepted and arrested at Bhojson area of Ebute Metta on Tuesday. He said the buses were impounded, while the drivers and passengers were charged to mobile court and sentenced accordingly. He said about 211 other violators were also arrested in different parts of the state and also charged to court on Tuesday. Also, 10 persons on Thursday were arrested for organising a party at Lekki Garden. Police said the suspects were arraigned in court on three-count charges and were found guilty as charged. “They were sentenced to 6 months imprisonment and community service, to run concurrently,” Elkana said. Similarly, on Thursday another 121 violators of lockdown order were arrested in different parts of the sate and charged to Court. They were awarded fines ranging from #5000 and #10,000 and two hours of community services. The state, being the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic in Nigeria, has been on lockdown since March 30. Although, the lockdown order expires on Monday, 27 April, it is unclear if  the government will relax the lockdown as the state has continued to record more cases by the day. As of April 25, Lagos has 689 cases of Nigeria’s 1,182 confirmed cases so far.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .