NGO partners state on free testing for 2,000 residents
Oyo State Government yesterday flagged off COVID-19 decontamination and containment exercise at the state secretariat as part of strategies to curtail further spread of the virus in the state. The Oyo State Government and University of Ibadan (UI) had gone into partnership with a view to containing the dreaded virus when about 137 volunteers from the premier university were trained last week on how to carry out the exercise. Governor Seyi Makinde, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs. Olubanwo Adeosun, during the flag-off exercise at the secretariat in Ibadan, urged other corporate bodies to be responsive by also embarking on a decontamination exercise around their property. Adeosun noted that chemicals for decontamination would be responsibly used to forestall possible health consequences She also said that the team members for the containment exercise were volunteers from the UI who were supporting the state government as part of their social responsibility gesture. Chairman of the COVID-19 Decontamination and Containment Team, Prof. (Mrs.) Olanike Adeyemo, said only indicated spaces with a possible case of COVID-19 needed to be decontaminated while other public spaces would only receive mild fumigation. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello, also re-emphasised that the decontamination exercise would not only make the state safer but also truly reduce further spread and containment of the COVID-19. Meanwhile, in line with Makinde’s plan to conduct COVID-19 tests on at least 10,000 residents of the state within a short time, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Citizen for Citizen, is set to sponsor a free mass COVID-19 testing exercise that would cover 2,000 residents. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the free mass testing, known as Drive-Through COVID-19 Testing, will be executed by LifeBank, a healthcare technology and logistics company based in Nigeria. “The screening will commence in Ibadan, the state capital, where 11 confirmed cases were earlier detected,”  the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .