Nigeria’s bid to host the 2020 African Women’s Nations Cup has been hit by the rampaging Coronavirus pandemic, forcing the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to halt its campaign for the rights, an official has revealed. The African Women’s Nations Cup, which was slated to hold from November 23 to December 20 this year, may not hold as scheduled due to the virus. The qualifiers for the African women’s competition were supposed to begin at the weekend, but they were postponed indefinitely by the Confederation of African Football (CAF) due to COVID-19 scare. The NFF Secretary-General, Mohammed Sanusi told The Guardian yesterday that the federation was currently trying to help the country battle the Coronavirus successfully, adding that it was working with relevant agencies to find ways of reorganising the football calendar of football championships can be resolved. “The NFF’s priority now is the battle against Coronavirus, which is affecting the whole world. We want to win the battle by getting a cure so that sporting activities will resume. “We cannot start discussing or lobbying CAF now for the hosting right of the African Women Championship when there is a global health issue affecting the lives of people every day. “The NFF will take the appropriate decision on hosting the African championship at the right time,” he said. The host of the African Women Nations Cup has not yet been confirmed following Congo’s withdrawal from hosting the championship. According to reports, Nigeria and Equatorial Guinea were the countries bidding to host the women championship before the Coronavirus pandemic hit the global stage from Wuhan, China. 12 teams, including the host nation, will take part in the women football event.
The Draws of the championship was held in Egypt, headquarters of CAF on December 4, 2019. CAF had initially fixed the dates of the qualifiers on home and away basis from April 6 to June 9. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .