After what may be considered a hiatus, Apako master and TGP Entertainment chief, Gabriel Oche Amanyi, popularly known by the stage name Terry G, has made a come back with a new single titled Adura featuring Skiibii. The new offering, which has the production imprint of Young John the ‘Wicked Producer’, serves as the Free Madness singer’s first official single for the year 2020. It comes after the successful Inspiration, which also has the production imprint of Young John, featuring Prettyboy D.O. Adura in Yoruba parlance connotes prayer, and the Rora crooner in the song, begs the Almighty God to answer his prayer requests.  Terry G in the latest hit, switched from English to his native language and Yoruba. Known for his dance unique beat and lyrics, it seems Terry G is coming back in a different way this time around. The singer in the new single appeared calm unlike what obtained in his other hits such as Free Madness, Rora among others. “In life, we grow. Once we are of age, we grow by evolving; we don’t expect to be stagnant in whatever positions we are. We always expect promotions and by God’s grace, I have given birth to children. Actually, I was the one that started the whole ‘madness’ thing that was highly discriminated then. At the end of the day, I sang it and I prophesied it that ‘this is the nonsense that would make sense.’ That time, nobody knew my aim; I just wanted to niche a style. But you can’t just keep doing the same thing. “Right now, I’m of a difference. What is happening right now is what you guys have discriminated and criticized me for in those days. You should also come back and understand me that I didn’t know what I was doing; I was just taking a risk,” he told journalists during the signing of a new investment. The Guardian had in February this year reported that the music producer cum singer signed a new investment deal with Basic Entertainment, which will see him work with the outfit for three years.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .