Experience has shown that the lockdown of the economic and social activities of society actually arrests the spread of the coronavirus (COVID-19) as is the case in many countries, particularly China where the virus pandemic started. The rapid spike in infections in the United States, Spain, Italy and the accompanying deaths has been attributed to the lack of an early lockdown in those countries. Hence the resort to lockdowns to arrest the spread of infections of the virus has now become globally acceptable. In this regard, the majority of Nigerians have welcomed the lockdown of the economy and other societal activities by the federal and state governments across the country. The Federal Government through the initial address of the President, Muhammadu Buhari and the accompanying legislation specifically called for an initial two-week lockdown of activities in Lagos and Ogun states as well as the federal capital territory, Abuja where the incidence of infection has been highest across the country. It was reviewed and renewed on Monday by the president. Other state governments also had some form of lockdown as they deem fit. This line of response by the authorities has been widely accepted across the country though there is the lingering question of how the ordinary and already impoverished Nigerian would survive during the period. Nigeria has a predominantly large informal economy and many of its citizens, particularly those self-employed have to eke out a living on a daily basis. While the government has made the correct assertion that being alive is paramount above other considerations, efforts should have been made by the authorities to provide substantial palliatives for the very poor in the population who depend primarily on daily cash flows to eke out a living for themselves. The expectation is that Nigeria should not deviate from what happens in other jurisdictions equally plagued by this pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .