Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel has assured the people of his state that he was not oblivious of the pains they are going through owing to COVID-19 lockdown policy of the government. In a statewide broadcast yesterday on the occasion of 2020 Easter celebrations, Emmanuel, who expressed gratitude to Akwa Ibom people for the sacrifice they have bored to keep the state free from being ravaged by the virus, said: “As your leader, I feel your pain. What affects you affects me and what affects me, affects you. The death of any Akwa Ibom person diminishes me. That is why we are fighting this COVID-19 pandemic with all the weapons at our arsenal. We trust God that at the end of the day, not one Akwa Ibom person will die of this pandemic.” “We thank you, my dear compatriots, for your co-operation in this determined fight to rid our state of this virus. We thank you for your sacrifices and deep understanding. “It has never happened in our lifetime that free citizens have had to be locked down in their homes, their freedom of movement curtailed and social interaction which is the basis of our communal life stopped. It is unthinkable that our churches, businesses, offices and shops have been closed down. This is indeed a huge sacrifice. “We thank you for enduring the pains. But you must remember that this season offers all of us in this lockdown the opportunity to look up to God for help and lock our faith in Him perpetually.” The governor, who further urged that though a new lexicon of social distancing has been added to the vocabulary, that should not be interpreted to mean love distancing, emphasised that no one in our neighbourhood should be deprived of the love and unity that this season calls for in view of the pandemic. According to him: “The times have given us a new lexicon or a new-fangled phrase – social distancing, but thankfully, not love distancing. “We should, therefore, ensure that not one person in our neighbourhood is deprived of this essential ingredient by virtue of this lockdown, which circumstances have forced upon us. Let us bridge the gap of social distancing with the cords of God’s love in sharing our foods and groceries with our neighbours. “We must continue to stand together in unity as one people having one state and worshipping only one God. We must turn again to the promise of Easter, which is that, what God did in the resurrection of Jesus, He will do again for this blessed state. “After this pandemic is gone, we will all look up to the hills and wonder from whence came our help. We would testify that our help came from the only God who made Heaven and Earth and who did not allow our foot to be moved.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .