Woman sleeping on bed in hotel room, close-up A good night’s sleep is connected to being balance in all aspects of your life. When you sleep well and at the right time, you have the mental capacity to achieve more during the day. Here’s how to achieve better sleep according to the Health. Gratitude
Start your day with gratitude, it helps put you in a better mood throughout the day. Take 10 minutes every morning to sit down, close your eyes, and give thanks for every one of the blessings in your life. Name each one and hold it in your thoughts. The sense of gratitude you’ll experience can help set a serene tone for the entire day. It can even help improve your mental health. It helps to be more productive during the day. Manage Electronics
Not many people can survive for more than 30 minutes without checking their phones for messages. According to the National Sleep Foundation, the use of electronics, especially before bedtime, can lead to physiological and psychological stimulation in ways that can affect sleep. These devices emit blue light, which can suppress the release of melatonin, the sleep hormone, and disrupt the body’s internal clock (circadian rhythm). This makes it more difficult to fall asleep. Strike a balance
Think about meditation, prayer, biofeedback, yoga or any daily activity that allows you to cultivate a peaceful center and a sense of balance. Also, it’s okay to unplug and have a day to yourself. Strike a balance between your work and personal life. Prioritise Sleep
It’s easy for sleep to slip on the priority list between meeting deadlines and attending social events. According to the National Sleep Foundation, the body spends one-third of its life asleep. This can affect how productive and successful you are in the other two-thirds of your life. Sleep also plays an important role when it comes to your health. Skipping out on sleep could affect the immune system and make it more vulnerable to getting sick from a cold or even the flu. Avoid Brain Clutter
Every time you start thinking about bills or work turn your brain off and focus on something that is less stimulating. You can choose to pray, meditate, think about happy moments, as long as it does not make you worry, it will be easier to fall asleep. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.