Cross River Governor, Ben Ayade has come under criticism by residents over his latest stance on social distancing and purchase of 50 vehicles to fight the Coronavirus. To prevent the spread of the virus, Ayade introduced “no mask no movement” policy in the state and in a sensitisation ceremony in Calabar, he discouraged people from social distancing, saying: “I am a professor of science and I know how this virus moves. I know its etiology, I know its transmissibility, I know its antigenicity…I know that once you put on this mask,  you already have been protected. You don’t need social distancing when you are properly protected because your mucal glands that secret the mucus and the musings already form a network of coats to attack the virus. Let us shout together, no mask no movement…” Reacting, some Cross Riverians said Ayade’s statement was a clear mark of ignorance and showmanship over a serious issue as COVID-19. A renowned writer and Public Affairs Analyst, Dr. Reuben Abati blamed Ayade’s stance on his numerous aides and advisers, whom he described as “ sycophants and bootlickers.” Former Peoples Progressives Alliance (PPA) governorship candidate and former Chairman, Inter-Party Advisory Council, (IPAC), Cross River State, Goddie Akpama, yesterday, said: “If social distancing is not necessary, why did the governor close borders linking other states with Cross River State? Why can’t the state government send emasks to the border posts for distribution to travellers coming into the state? On the 50 cars the governor bought to fight Coronavirus, Apama said: “It is a misplaced priority. Having looked critically at the use for which those cars have been put, I am of the view that purchasing of more ambulances would have been better for the state, because it would serve present and future cases of health emergencies. Officially, there is no reported case of Coronavirus in the state…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .