The General Hospital, Egbe in Yagba West Council of Kogi State yesterday turned down the request for deposit of a corpse in its mortuary on suspicion of coronavirus. Acting on the order of the Senior Special Assistant to Kogi State Governor on Security for Yagba West, Tade Oshaloto, the medical officer in charge of the hospital, Dr. Ola Iwarere, said the decision to deny access to the use of the hospital’s morgue was to ascertain the cause of death while allowing for isolation of the visitors that accompanied the corpse from Abuja. In the alternative, he recommended to the family of the deceased, Mrs. Bamigbola Olayemi, to bury the remains while the mourners returned immediately to Abuja, as there were no facilities in the area to isolate the visitors. Speaking with The Guardian, Oshaloto, attributed his decision to current efforts to prevent the spread of the virus to the area. He noted that information at his disposal was that the corpse left a hospital in Abuja for Egbe without clearance, wondering how the ambulance secured passage from Abuja to Egbe despite the lockdown. Report reaching The Guardian yesterday evening was that the corpse was still on the highway, as traditional rulers in the area debated the issue. However, Kogi State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Saka Haruna, confirmed that Mrs. Olayemi, aged 83, died of a natural cause, according to the referral letter that accompanied the corpse. Meanwhile, the Yobe State COVID-19 committee has extended workers’ ‘stay and work from home’ order to Wednesday, April 30, 2020. The extension was adopted Tuesday while the committee led by the deputy governor, Idi Gubana, was reviewing the preventive measures in Damaturu. The Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Abdullahi Bego, stated yesterday in Damaturu that the measures were put in place to prevent outbreak of the disease in the state. “The stay-at-home and work-from-home directive for civil servants from Grade Level 12 and below has also been extended until April 30.” He noted that people should continue to observe and implement all measures against COVID-19, including social distancing, regular hand washing and excellent respiratory etiquette. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .