• Buhari’s photographer distributes palliatives over COVID-19
• Fayemi’s hails traditional rulers’ support The captors of the Ekiti State Commissioner for Agriculture, Folorunso Olabode, have reduced the ransom to N15 million. The kidnappers had on Monday called the family and requested for N30 million ransom to secure the commissioner’s release. Olabode and one other were kidnapped by unknown gunmen along Iludun-Isan Road around 7.30 p.m. on Sunday. A family source told newsmen in Ado-Ekiti yesterday that the ransom was reduced in the process of negotiating with the captors. “The process of negotiation began on Monday and the initial request was N30 million. “But as of today, Wednesday, the captors had reduced the amount to N15 million. “We are hoping that the commissioner will be released soon because we are all concerned about his safety,” he said. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Mr. Sunday Abutu, while commenting on the security measures being taken to secure Olabode’s release, said the police and other security networks were on the trail of the bandits, adding that the police and other security had begun serious stop and search along the route to ascertain the identities of commuters. He said the police were not aware of any negotiation on the demand made by the abductors, assuring that every security measures would be put in place to secure Olabode’s release. However, as part of efforts to cushion the harsh effect of COVID-19 on the people, the Chief Official Photographer to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mr. Bayo Omoboriowo, has distributed food items to the people of Ijero Local Council in Ekiti State. The President’s photographer, who hails from Ijero-Ekiti, said he was compelled to give back to the society, especially the less privileged and the vulnerable in the community to cushion the effect of the pandemic ravaging the world. He said his intervention was driven largely by his commitment to contribute towards improving the lives of people in the society, particularly at a time like this when life has become difficult for the people due to government’s effort to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Biodun Omoleye, commended Omoboriowo for supporting and coming to the aid of the less-privileged in Ijero Local Council. Fayemi, who said Omoboriowo’s gesture and those of others who have made donations would complement government’s effort at making life better for them, described the gesture as a response to one man’s unwavering desire to continually seek improvements in the general well-being of not just himself, but his immediate environment and society at large. The governor also expressed his appreciation to the council of traditional rulers in the state for supporting the COVID-19 support fund. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .