Two members of the House of Representatives, Mr Sam Onuigbo and Nkeiruka Onyejeocha have come to the aid of their constituents as part of efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. Onuigbo representing Ikwuano/Umuahia North/South Federal Constituency of Abia State distributed kits, which included of face masks, hand sanitisers, hand gloves, soaps and tap buckets to some journalists, traders, health workers and road transport workers in the state. The lawmaker enjoined his constituents to key into all precautionary measures outlined by the government and health professionals to contain the spread of the contagious disease in the country. The lawmaker commended the Federal Government for the proactive steps so far taken in combating the spread of the virus.The Chief Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, Dr. Azubuike Onyebuchi, expressed gratitude to the lawmaker for his prompt intervention, adding that it would go a long way to assist the beneficiaries in warding off the virus. Highlights of the event included the practice of the social distancing in the sitting arrangement and the distribution of the items and a leaflet on how to prevent the spread of the virus to the beneficiaries. Also, the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Mrs Nkeiruka Onyejeocha has concluded arrangements to distribute food, hand sanitisers, facemasks, gloves and medical items to her constituents to ameliorate the burden occasioned by the stay at home order. While urging government to ensure that more people have access to laboratory tests for COVID-19, Onyejeocha urged security agencies and all tax forces set up by either the federal or state governments to treat people with dignity and respect. The deputy chief whip also applauded the effort of government in combating the virus so far but called for increased provision of basic amenities like electricity and water now that people have been forced to stay in their homes. The lawmaker called on the people of Isuikwato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency to remain vigilant and to observe all the necessary guidelines issued by the government and health authorities to stay safe. She further urged her constituents to cooperate with the authorities and remain at home where restriction orders on movements have been issued, while urging them to demonstrate love to vulnerable ones among them by giving and sharing whatever they have with others. She advised her constituents not to treat anyone who presents with the symptoms of COVID-19 at home but to report them to health authorities or the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) through the numbers the Federal Government has obliged.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .