 Nyesome Wike  What happened? The Rivers State Governor, Nyesome Wike, according to reports, ordered the arrest of two pilots – Samuel Urgoji and Samuel Buhari – in Port Harcourt over alleged violation of the stay-at-home directive.  Urgoji and Buhari were arraigned in a Chief Magistrate Court on four-count charge, which bordered on illegally flying expatriate oil workers into the state, contravening the Executive Order issued by the Rivers State Governor aimed at checking the spread of COVID-19 in the state. The pilots have been remanded in correctional centre till May 19, 2020.
 
Indeed, Wike has an unparalleled love for the people of Rivers than they had actually seen in action. He wanted to protect them from the ravaging coronavirus disease. Having complained about the rationale of Federal Government’s allocation of N10 billion to Lagos State and nil to Rivers in the fights against coronavirus, Wike had gone ahead to impose a lockdown on Rivers State and he would stop at nothing to ensure people stay at home and observe social distancing. But the clandestine, if not malicious manner of invading the restricted area of Port Harcourt International Airport (PHIA) premises and arrest of the aviators, has left a yawning gap in its propriety. For a fact, the law of the land stands supreme and it should be a no respecter of persons, including pilots and governors. Anyone that breaches the law should face the music. However, the Nigerian constitution that Wike on two occasions sworn to “preserve, protect and defend” to best of his ability provides for a nexus between the states and the Federal Government amid devolution of powers, and provisions of Exclusive Legislative Lists where aviation belongs. He ought to know that aviation, including airports, safety of aircraft and carriage of passengers and goods by air is listed as item 3 on the Exclusive Legislative List as contained in Part 1 of the Second Schedule to the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria as amended. The same document, in its 7th Schedule specifically deals with the Oath of Office of Governor of a State and places the duty on the governor of a state to subjugate himself to the President.  Granted that Wike freely wielded the power he didn’t have, what of the so-called law enforcement agencies of the state who accompanied and executed the illegal steps? The popular narrative was how the state governors are almost helpless and having no control over security agencies that have been hired and answerable only to the commander-in-chief. But in this matter, the public saw law enforcement officers doing the bidding of a state governor and in violation of a Federal Government’s mission. The officers cannot claim to be ignorant of the law; otherwise, they are undeserving of the uniform or state duties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .