• 200 lockdown defaulters sentenced in Jos
• DisCo donates safety materials to Plateau Kaduna-based scientist, Professor Ayodele Adeleye, yesterday urged the Federal Government to engage him over his claim to the cure for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Adeleye, a native of Ijebu Igbo in Ogun State, told The Guardian yesterday in Ilorin that his claim would not only put Nigeria on the positive side of history but would also prevent imminent economic recession and loss of lives linked with the deadly virus. He said, “This research is not recent. It had been ongoing for some years, but it had now come into manifestation. It is a practical thing; if it fails, the whole world will see it. But if it succeeds, credit goes to Nigeria as a nation. I have done what God has told me to do; the rest is with the Federal Government. The former lecturer with the Department of Microbiology, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH), Zaria, Kaduna State, had on Monday said there was a three-day window for the coronavirus cure discovery, just as he assured that if adopted, the current lockdown world over due to the scourge would be history. In another vein, the Mobile Court set up by the Plateau State Government to try violators of the lockdown has tried and convicted 200 defaulters. Out of the figure, 47 of them are serving their sentences through community service of cleaning the streets of Jos. Deputy Controller of Jos Correctional Centre, Folorunso Mark, explained that the community sentencing was for those who were unable to pay their fines and fulfil other conditions as directed by the court. Chairman of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Jos Branch, Yakubu Bawa, hailed the lockdown directive. Each convict on community service is to serve for two hours daily before securing his or her release. Meanwhile, Jos Electricity Distribution (JED) has donated some safety materials to the Plateau, Benue, Bauchi and Gombe states to fight the pandemic. Presenting the items to the Plateau government, Regional Manager of Jos Metro, Aliyu Abba, said that the company made the donation to complement the efforts of the state in its fight against the spread of the killer virus. He disclosed that as its modest attempt in supporting the government, the company would be giving steady power supply based on energy at its disposal. The state government expressed appreciation to the DisCo. Secretary to the State Government, Professor Danladi Atu, disclosed that the governor was ready to support the company in its quest to constantly supply energy to the people of Plateau.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .