Gov. Sanwo-Olu, Wife Test Negative Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof Akin Abayomi has announced that another four COVID-19 patients were yesterday discharged, bringing the total recovered patients to twenty-four. Abayomi stated this during the Lagos State COVID-19 Update, adding that those discharged were three females and a male. He revealed that a six-weeks baby was among the patients, adding that as at yesterday, sixteen new people were diagnosed. The commissioner stated that the ministry, in collaboration with relevant stakeholders, is doing everything possible to ensure that it reduced the way people are infected. According to him, 98 cases are in Lagos, with Eti-osa having 47 cases, Ikeja-24, Lagos Mainland-11 and Agege and Ikorodu with one each. He also informed that those 74 coronavirus cases are active in the state. Abayomi, who said the Gbagada Isolation Centre will be commissioned next week, said the training for medical and healthcare worker is aimed at increasing the workforce and good service delivery, adding that the ministry is doing contact tracing of about 2450 persons that had had contact with confirmed Coronavirus patients in the state. In his remarks, the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotosho urged Lagosians to maintain high personal hygiene, practice social distancing and visit the state government information channel to avoid fake news. Meanwhile, Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu have tested negative for the coronavirus. The state’s commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi announced this on his official Twitter account under his #COVID19Lagos Update tweets in the early hours of Friday.
 
Abayomi also revealed that personal aides of the governor and the First Lady, who got tested for the Coronavirus, are all negative. He thanked Lagosians for their support and show of understanding as the State Government continues to battle against the spread of the virus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .