The Nigerian Government said it has commenced an investigation into a failed plastic surgery by one Dr Anu of Med Contour in Abuja. The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission (FCCPC) in a statement by its chief executive officer Babatunde Irukera said the government agency became aware of complaints and dissatisfaction with respect to certain elective/cosmetic surgical procedures carried out by Med Contour services. “The allegations are that Med Contour engages in conduct that is considered otherwise unprofessional, misleading and potentially injurious, including resulting in possible fatalities,” Irukera said. Nigerians on Twitter last week called for the arrest of Dr Anu, who runs Med Contour, a plastic surgery firm, after a failed operation on a Twitter influencer known as Omohtee. In a divided outrage, some Nigerians condemned the plastic surgeon while others advised Omohtee to accept fate. But Dr Anu denied causing his patient’s deformity. “So apparently my offense is that her waist is too tiny,” Dr Anu said. “At the expense of another persons name and profession some people just want their posts to trend…this is really sad. I leave this lady to God..let Gods will be done.” But the FCCPC boss said although the agency is not “a professional/licencing or disciplinary inquiry,”  a review of the matter indicated that there was sufficient probable cause to inquire into the consumer protection aspects of the representations and services of Med Contour, and its operatives. “As such, the Commission has opened an active investigation into the practices and processes of Med Contour, its promoter, associates and employees,” Irukera said. Sections 17(5),(t),(x),(y) and 130 of the act that established the agency, Irukera said, prohibits “obnoxious practices, require services to be safe and for the Commission to act to reduce risk of injury to consumers, as well as ensure services comply with applicable standards of care.” “Sections 123, 124 and 125 prohibit making misleading statements, issuing guarantees or statements about the efficacy, skills or probable outcomes with respect to services that are untested or scientifically unproven, and Sections 127, 128 and 129 prohibit unfair or unreasonable contract terms, exclusion, or waiver of legitimate liability for prevailing standards of care.” Irukera said the commission will look to gather additional information from consumers with previous experiences with Med Contour or its operatives, whether the experiences were satisfactory or otherwise, and from persons who have any such relevant information, including about the experiences ofothers. “The commission, therefore, requests credible information in this regard in the form of a concise narrative of facts including the identity of the Med Contour operatives the interactions occurred with.!nformat1’on should be sent to failedcosmeticsurgery@fccpc.gov.ng,” Irukera said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .