No fewer than seven persons were confirmed dead with several others injured yesterday in separate accidents that occurred in three locations in Lagos State. The deceased, four of whom are members of two families, died on the spots. The first accident that claimed four lives happened when a car rammed into some commuters standing at a bus stop at Ogudu, inward Third Mainland Bridge, another one was recorded at Sangotedo, Ajah, while the third accident involved a Mazda bus and a motorcycle, which claimed two lives around new Kara market, on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Public Relations Officer, Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the Lagos-Ibadan incident to newsmen in Abeokuta. Akinbiyi noted that the accident, which occurred at about 9:30a.m. was caused by reckless driving and wrongful overtaking on the part of the bus driver. “Due to reckless driving, the bus marked AME 805 XA hit the moving Bajaj motorcycle marked SGM 149 V, after that, the bus lost control and rammed into a moving trailer from the rear. The trailer did not stop. “The bus was moving from Berger to Ibadan, with 18 people involved in the accident, which comprises of 13 male and five female passengers. Unfortunately, six persons were injured while two male adults, one from the bus and another from the motorcycle died in the accident,” he said. The TRACE spokesman explained that the injured victims were taken to Victory Hospital, Ogere, Remo, while the deceased were deposited at State Hospital mortuary, Isara Remo. Reacting to the Ogudu accident, the Public Relations Officer of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Nosa Okunbor, confirmed the incident.  He, however, said LASEMA had sketchy details on the accident. Okunbor said: “Indeed, an accident occurred earlier this morning at Ogudu that left a few persons dead. However, the distress call was a call escalated through the 767/112 Lagos emergency toll-free lines and was attended to by LASAMBUS. Therefore, LASEMA does not have a report or statement on it.” According to an eyewitness, no fewer than four persons died in the accident. The eyewitness said the accident, which saw some persons injured, also involved children.
It was gathered that the Sangotedo accident involved seven members of two families jogging at about 6:30a.m. when a saloon car on top speed suddenly skidded off its lane, entered one-way and knocked the seven joggers to the ground. It was learnt that four of the victims – two from each of the families – allegedly had their heads crushed and died on the spot while the other three were rushed to the hospital. However, another account of events claimed the other three siblings had gone to the bus stop to visit and help their mother sell fresh tomatoes before the accident occurred. Although eyewitness accounts claimed that all seven persons were killed in the crash, the police clarified that three persons survived and were receiving treatments at the hospital. The police also dismissed claims that the other three siblings were at the bus stop to help their mother sell tomatoes, adding that all the victims had their joggers and sports shoes on. At Ojodu bus stop, eyewitnesses said a car also on top speed swerved in an attempt to avoid collision with an oncoming vehicle only to ram into an old woman and two siblings standing on the road. “I was on my way to work. It was at about 10:30a.m. when I saw a horrible accident. The accident occurred shortly after police checkpoint. A car was coming on top speed and when it got to the junction, it almost collided with another vehicle. The driver swerved and in the process applied his brakes. That was how he rammed into commuters standing at the bus stop. I saw people hit. One of them was at the roadside badly injured in the head,” said a source. Confirming the accidents, police spokesman Bala Elkana, said the two drivers in Ojodu and Sangotedo were arrested and currently in police custody. He said the siblings involved in the Ojodu accident did not die, confirming that the old woman who was standing with them died. “I confirm that there were two accidents. That of Sangotedo involved seven persons. Four of them are from one family and the other three from one family too. They were jogging when a vehicle lost control and hit them. “Two siblings each from both families died while the others are receiving treatment in the hospital. At Ojodu, an old woman was killed but the two young siblings who were affected are receiving treatment in the hospital also. The two drivers are in custody and investigation is ongoing,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .