 Ifeanyi Okowa  The Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu, said the essence was for the appointees to properly disabuse the minds of people that still doubt the realities of COVID-19 and its devastating effect on the socio-economic life of the state. Speaking with The Guardian in Asaba yesterday, Aniagwu restated Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s promise, while appraising measures put in place during first two weeks of the lockdown, to battle the pandemic. Okowa, who applauded corporate bodies and philanthropists for their kind donations in cash and kind, while appealing for more donors to help out, directed all council chairmen to ensure that markets were opened on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays at designated locations. His words, “We have put in place a food bank. We are getting the last stalks of the initial order and by the special grace of God, between the next 42 and 72 hours, food would be sent across to support our intentions to people who do not have access to food in all wards of the state. “We will use the federal wards as a means for distribution to all Deltans and not restricted to party members. “We are seizing this opportunity to applaud those who have made donation to the Zenith Bank, Sterling Bank and UBA accounts as well as those who have made donations in kind to the food bank.” He encouraged Deltans to continue of assist the poor, promising that t the monies and food items donated would be put into proper use. “Those who want to get further information can make enquiries from the office of the Secretary to the state Government (SSG) or that of the Commissioner for Health,” he added.He charged council chairmen to ensure that all formal markets were closed and food markets opened in the primary and secondary schools fields. “That means that we have to try to open as many branches in the primary and secondary schools that are available. When we do not have enough of this available, please look out for open spaces and cause temporary markets to open in such places. “You must also create a team to ensure that the social distancing is observed. “Because people have continued to use the opportunity of the opening of food markets to loiter, we have decided that this temporary food markets would only be opened on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays only and I believe that this is doable.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .