In a quest to sustain government efforts towards containing the impact of the Coronavirus in the country. Few among the operators before now had donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) worth millions to the Lagos State and others in a move to mitigate the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The underwriters’ intervention is considered the largest single donation by a corporate organisation in the country to address the spread of coronavirus since a foreigner tested positive last month in Lagos. Precisely, over the weekend FBNInsurance and its subsidiary, FBN General Insurance has demonstrated commitment to their community by donated an ambulance to the Lagos State Government as well as food items to the needy communities within across the state. Confirmed this development over the weekend, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, FBNInsurance Valentine Ojumah, told The Guardian that the presentation of the ambulance to the Lagos State Government, the gesture was to support the State’s effort in curbing the spread of COVID-19 in the state. He stated, that both companies in collaboration with the other insurance companies was putting together resources to provide an insurance cover for medical personnel who are in the frontline of the fight against the virus. Receiving the ambulance on behalf of the State Government, the wife of the Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu alongside the Lagos State Chief of Staff, Tayo Ayinde applauded insurance operator for the donation and assured that the Lagos State Government would put the ambulance to adequate use to serve the purpose. Dr. Sanwo-Olu said the donation would also help the State Government in the management of other health-related issues. Speaking also in the same strain the Managing Director of FBN General Insurance, a subsidiary of FBN Insurance, Bode Opadokun said that over the weekend, provided food items (Rice, Beans and Semolina) to 6,000 Lagosians in Ajegunle, Iwaya and Agege areas of the state. In a related development, A resident of Iwaya who pleaded anonymity affirmed her confidence back to the insurance sector said before now, she did not believe in insurance companies I felt all they do is take people’s money, but with this gesture from FBNInsurance and FBN General Insurance, I am amazed. This simple act of kindness from their organisation has changed my perception about insurance. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .