CAN urges Bagudu to set up test centre in Kebbi
Kaduna State coronavirus disease (COVID-19) taskforce has expressed fear that the state could record up to 57,000 cases, if the violation of the lockdown order persists. The taskforce said the case of an infected gateman, who returned from Lagos, was enough to reveal local transmission of the disease; hence the need to maintain the stay-at-home order. The state government said tracing over 300 persons that had in contact with the gateman from Lagos was impossible. Besides, five other persons tested positive to COVID-19 in Kaduna. The Commissioner For Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, addressing security men in a video clip, said the state did not have “the capacity to handle large number of infected persons.” Aruwan, who warned of impending disaster due to the failure to maintain lockdown in the state, pleaded with the security patrol team to sustain the tempo. “Imagine the guy that came from Lagos; he is a gateman from Kawo. He entered a commercial vehicle from Lagos to Kaduna,  and he must have infected so many people. Now we can’t trace about 300 persons from his own family and people in Mando,” he lamented. Meanwhile, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Kebbi State chapter, has appeal to Governor Abubakar Bagudu to set up a COVID-19 test centre in the state. The Chairman, Dr. Ayuba Kanta, while addressing journalists on the Esther celebration yesterday, added that the test centre would go a long way to assist the medical profession and the patients. Despite that the state has not experienced any case of the pandemic, he emphasised that all the necessary arrangements should be made in case of any emergency. Kanta noted that the association had complied with the government’s stay-at-home and social distancing directive. His words, “We have divided the congregation into two and three parts; some will enter after one hour, which depends on church. We thank the state government for establishing the special task to curtail disease.” He explained that Kebbi CAN had embarked on the sensitisation campaign in all churches. “We have done a lot on educating the people on the danger of the disease.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .