•Receives 160 PPE From Estate Surveyors Lagos State Government has assured residents that it will not rest on its oars until a complete stop is put to the spread of the deadly coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in the state, just as it received 160 Personal Protective Equipment from the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV). Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu gave this assurance yesterday when members of NIESV Lagos Branch, led by the chairman, Adedotun Bamigbola, visited him at the State House, Marina. The visit was to demonstrate support for the state government and health workers on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, received the PPE donated by the branch to the medical force of the state government. The donation included 60 pieces of protective gowns for use by personnel at isolation centres across the state and 100 pieces of re-usable high quality face shields. Appreciating the institution for the visit, the governor stated that the donation would further strengthen the state government’s fight against the pandemic. “Government will not rest on her oars until a complete stop is put to the spread of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. In his remarks, the chairman of the NIESV, Lagos branch, Adedotun Bamigbola, appreciated the governor for the leadership role he had played so far in the fight against COVID-19, which affected practically every sector and the country as a whole. He added that NIESV had been doing a lot to sensitise her members and the general public by putting out short video clips and flyers to further help spread the message about COVID-19 and the need for everyone to obey the safety and social distancing rules as directed by the World Health Organisation  (WHO). Bamigbola reiterated the institution’s readiness to support the state government, particularly in terms of facilities management consultancy at the COVID-19 isolation centres. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .