A financial services provider, FBN Holdings Plc on Wednesday, formally notified the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) of on-going discussions with its partner Sanlam Emerging Markets, owners of 35% equity in FBN Insurance Limited (FBNI) regarding the proposed sale of the company’s 65% equity in FBN Insurance Limited. According to the formal notice sent to the exchange and signed by the Company Secretary, Seye Kosoko, FBNH stated that the move is in line with the Group’s strategic objectives, adding that they are currently engaging the regulators for the necessary approvals. FBN Holdings however assured the Exchange that further announcement would be made if the transactions were concluded. The proposed divestment is said to be a strategic business decision for FBNH. When completed, the transaction will involve the transfer of FBN Holdings’ 65 per cent stake in FBN Insurance Limited to Sanlam. The notification to the NSE is one of the statutory steps required of listed companies when considering a market-sensitive decision or transaction. In deference to Rule 17.5 of the Rule Book of the Exchange 2015, FBN Holdings first notified the market of the development in the Directors’ Report Section of its Audited Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2019 which was released to the Exchange on Monday 6, April 2016. For full year ended December 31, 2019, the company posted a Profit Before Tax (PBT) of ₦84 billion representing a growth of 31 per cent over 2018 PBT of N64billion. Profit After Taxation (PAT) at ₦74 billion was a growth of 27% over ₦58 billion reported for 2018. The company’s directors also recommended the payment of the sum of N13.64 billion (38kobo/Share) as dividend to its shareholders representing a growth of 46% over prior year dividend. The proposed divestment will unlock significant value to leverage the group’s strength in its core business for which it is renowned. FBN Insurance was founded as a Life Insurer in 2010 with a vision to be Nigeria’s first choice in risk underwriting, wealth preservation and financial security. Sanlam Group has been associated with and is the other Shareholder of FBN Insurance Plc since it was established in 2010.   Sanlam with over 100years experience and expertise in Insurance, Asset Management, Wealth Management and Investments is one of the leading Insurance companies in Africa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .