The World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Office for Africa has confirmed six cases of Ebola in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The UN’s health agency confirmed the development on its official twitter account @WHOAFRO on Monday. “They are currently six confirmed Ebola cases in Northeastern DRC in spite of ongoing insecurity in the area. “WHO and partners are working with civil society organisations to carry out surveillance activities including contact tracing and monitoring of the 638 known contacts.’’ WHO had on April 10 confirmed a new case of Ebola virus in the city of Beni in DRC, after 52 days of not recording a case in the country. In light of this, the International Health Regulations Emergency Committee on Ebola in DRC had met and presented their recommendations to the WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus. Ghebreyesus said their view on the Ebola outbreak in the DRC was that it continued to constitute a Public Health Emergency of International Concern and I have accepted that advice. “Tremendous progress has been made containing this outbreak in very difficult circumstances. “Up until April 10, 54 days had passed without a confirmed case being reported, and 40 days had passed since the last person known to have Ebola tested negative and was discharged from treatment. “The Committee noted that armed groups are active in the area where these cases were identified, a lack of funding is constraining the response, and the COVID-19 pandemic is adding more challenges to an already complex operation. “We have to anticipate and be prepared for additional small outbreaks. We need the full force of all partners to bring these outbreaks under control and to meet the needs of the people affected,’’ Ghebreyesus said. The director-general, however, thanked the Committee for their advice. “I thank the government and people of DRC, the responders, partners and WHO colleagues, who are dedicated to ending this outbreak,’’ he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .