To cushion the effect of the COVID-19 crisis on the Nigerian economy, experts have urged the government to restructure its finances and eliminate overlapping ministries in various departments.
 
The experts argued that the emergence of COVID-19 and its increasing incidence in Nigeria calls for drastic review and strategic measures to restructure the finances of the government.
 
They insisted that if fully and faithfully implemented, these measures would go a long way in reducing the overall cost of governance in Nigeria.  “So we need to look at the sectors that were grossly affected and then intervened directly to restart their commercial activities such that employment and business will return back to normalcy at the earliest possible time.  “Nigeria at the moment can ill-afford such profligacy. Nigeria needs not to operate the most expensive democracy in the world. If fully and faithfully implemented, these measures will go a long way in reducing the overall cost of governance in Nigeria. More financial resources will be released for capital expenditure as a result of these cost-cutting measures.”
   
The Head, Research, FSL Securities Limited, Victor Chiazor, said the review of the country’s 2020 budget the review suggests that most sectors which had earlier complained of low capital injection will now receive lower funding on the back of the review, while the fiscal deficit will rise to N4.43trillion from N1.59trillion, which will increase the nation’s debt servicing to revenue ratio to a level that may become toxic to the economy.
   
“Going forward the government must begin to think of different ways to generate revenue outside of oil, as oil prices have become very volatile and unpredictable, hence the need for the country to find alternatives outside of oil.”
 
“This will ultimately increase our debt servicing to revenue ratio to a level that may become toxic to the economy,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .