Edo State Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked Governor Godwin Obaseki to explain the move by the state government seeking contractors to bid for renovation/construction of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office building in Benin City. According to the PDP, “the action of the state government and INEC is unfortunate, reprehensible, treacherous and scandalous.” The opposition party, therefore demanded for an immediate investigation and empanelling of an Independent Judicial Commission of Inquiry into the circumstances that have led Edo State government to want to renovate/construct the INEC office building in Benin. A statement signed by its state Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikare in Benin City and made available to journalists yesterday, the party said that the ungodly alliance and collaboration was discovered when the tender for the contract was advertised in a national daily on April 27, 2020 by the Edo State government through the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development. The statement reads in part: “The situation is yet another manifestation of leadership failure and insensitivity of the Governor Obaseki-led APC administration to the plight of Edo people at these critical moments. “It is unacceptable for a government that is struggling with providing palliatives for its citizens, helping businesses stay afloat and running an efficient and effective government, to continually divert state resources to the detriment of its people. “Edo PDP condemns unequivocally the attempt by Governor Obaseki to bribe, compromise, coarse, intimidate, corrupt and manipulate INEC by the renovation or construction of its office building in Benin City.” Nehikare, who noted that the party’s call was predicated on the fact that in less than six months, INEC would be conducting a gubernatorial election whereby the APC-led Governor Obaseki will be a key player, said that the Edo PDP was saddened and dismayed that Governor Obaseki’s government now resorted to “bribery” in an attempt to get a second term at all costs, adding: “It is even more ludicrous for Governor Obaseki to ignore the optics of such a venture. Such anti-people antic from government is symptomatic of a leadership that has not only lost focus, but has lost touch and, certainly, the confidence of the people he was elected to serve. “Our party holds that Governor Obaseki is desperate to get a second term and as such, has thrown caution to the wind by pursing extraneous issues that have no direct benefits on the lives of the people. “INEC, as an independent body, should not allow itself to be compromised by accepting gifts from desperate state governments so close to elections. However, from our investigation, it was discovered that INEC doesn’t have an office in the address advertised. This is just another avenue to fleece our state treasury.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .