President of Lagos Lawn Tennis Club, Ademola Akin-Taylor (second left), presenting a N5 million cheque to Lagos State government’s representative, General Manager, Lagos State Printing Corporation, Kola Peregrino (second right) when members of the club visited State House, Alausa… yesterday. The Lagos Lawn Tennis Club, Onikan, has donated N5 million to the state government as its contribution to efforts to cushion the effects of the COVID-19-induced lockdown on vulnerable citizens of the state. Speaking at the presentation of the N5 million cheque at Government House, Ikeja yesterday, president of Lagos Lawn Tennis Club, Ademola Akin-Taylor said the club decided to help the state government’s efforts to ensure the poor and vulnerable people were able to feed while staying at home. Taylor, who commended Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu for his effort in containing the spread of COVID-19, noted that it became necessary for the club to support the state government because of the growing demand for palliatives in the state. “The Lagos Lawn Tennis Club decided to donate N5 million to Lagos State government to support the COVID-19 pandemic battle because we understand the tough situation people are facing during this lockdown. “All our members within and outside the country contributed the money in different denominations. The governor of Lagos State is a member of the club and it was necessary for the club to help in times like this. “The money will be used to give palliatives to the less privileged and also buy more facilities to contain the COVID-19 virus. “We employ more organisations to support Lagos State in the fight against COVID-19 Pandemic. Residents of Lagos should also keep regular hygiene and sit at home to help reduce the spread of the virus,” he said.
Receiving the cheque from members of the club, General Manager, Lagos State Printing Corporation, Kola Peregrino, praised it for supporting government, saying that the donation would be utilized well to meet the demands of Lagos residents. “This is a laudable gesture from Lagos Lawn Tennis Club. The state government is grateful, as this assistance will go a long way in helping the state solve some issues that will benefit the society. “We call on other sports organisations and corporate bodies to emulate what Lagos Lawn Tennis Club has done. I also urge Lagos residents to still keep the social distance rule and follow all the health guidelines the government has put in place to contain the COVID-19 Pandemic,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .