To further reduce gaps in the demand-supply chain, Rensource, a provider of critical merchant infrastructure has unveiled a digital platform, Merchlist.co that helps small and medium-sized retailers get discovered quickly while enabling servicing and fulfillment of customer orders online. The Merchlist.co platform was developed as a solution to keep SMEs viable during the COVID-19 pandemic and has two main features, which are buy, which allows customers purchase directly from SMEs, and discover, which aggregates services, contact details and delivery methods, ensuring that end users can see service availability in real-time. The buy allows customers purchase directly from SMEs, while discover aggregates services, contact details and delivery methods, ensuring that end users can see service availability in real-time. Partner SMEs on Merchlist.co include Grocery Bazaar, Grand Square, Rx Pharmacy, Food Jaar, and The Meat Shop. While the platform is currently in its beta testing stage, only accepting a limited number of orders per day, plans are underway to roll out in additional markets across Nigeria– allowing more SMEs and merchants to go digital and access end-users. Commenting on the launch of Merchlist.co, Chief Operating Officer at Rensource, Anu Adasolum, said “At Rensource, we’re focused on connecting people to the most important things. Energy has always been our core business but in light of the pandemic, we see the opportunity to help small businesses who are the backbone of our economy survive by gaining access to consumers online. The launch of Merchlist will ensure that small businesses stay in business and everyday consumers can continue to access essential goods. Merchlist aims to connect as many small businesses as possible to the millions of internet users in Nigeria– simply, easily and quickly. “We have also launched a fund to support our merchant families during this period. Donations by Merchlist is providing food, essentials and medical supplies to these families through our partner NGOs,  Lagos Food Bank, Foundation for the Support of the Less Privileged and Dream from the Slum.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .