• Begins training for volunteers in UI over pandemic
• Says we’re following WHO’s recommendations on containment
• NASFAT lauds medical practitioners, distributes relief materials Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said that the state government will enact a law that will make wearing of masks compulsory in the state to slow down the spread of the rampaging Coronavirus. Makinde, who disclosed this yesterday while briefing journalists after a meeting with the state’s COVID-19 Task Force at the Government House, Agodi, Ibadan, also said that the state would explore home-grown solutions towards the prevention and cure of Coronavirus. The governor, who said that the state was considering rapid and mass testing of residents with efforts to create two additional testing centres already underway, stated that from his experience of the virus, boosting of immunity has an important part to play in overcoming it, adding that the state will continue to refer to experts’ opinions. Meanwhile, the state governnment has said that it is following the recommendations of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the process of carrying out containment and decontamination exercise as a result of Coronavirus pandemic. Deputy Chief of Staff to the Governor, Abdul-Mojeed Mogbonjubola, disclosed this during the training of volunteers at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ibadan (UI), Ibadan, Oyo State, in a bid to curtail the virus. Mogbonjubola urged the volunteers to be committed to the exercise. In another development, Nasru-lahi-l-Fatih Society (NASFAT) has commended medical personnel for mitigating further spread of the COVID-19 worldwide. In a statement yesterday, National Missioner of NASFAT, Imam Abdul Azeez Onike, enjoined people to be conscious of their health and see it as a trust from the Almighty God. Onike, who spoke on this year’s World Health Day, with the theme, “Support Nurses and Midwives,” said NASFAT had been vigorously campaigning through various media for people to appreciate the health workers and volunteers who had been risking their own lives to reduce the effect of COVID-19 and other health challenges. Meanwhile, NASFAT said that it had in various locations in United Kingdom (UK), United States (U.S.), Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Edo, Rivers, Kaduna, Kwara, FCT and other states in Nigeria distributed various food items and monetary gifts to nurses, healthcare professionals and vulnerable persons in the immediate community. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .