 Plateau United Coach, Abdu Maikaba  Coach Abdu Maikaba of Plateau United has expressed worries over the events in Kano State. A former coach of Kano Pillars, Maikaba wants Nigerians to pray for the state, while urging government to look for solution to the rapid deaths in the state. The coach told The Guardian yesterday that he has been having sleepless nights following the deaths he has experienced in the state recently. He said, “I am a very sad man due to the rate at which people are dying now in Kano. About three weeks ago, I lost my elder brother; just yesterday (Saturday) I lost a friend and now my younger brother has been hospitalised and he is diabetic. I don’t know what will happen next. “Kano needs everyone’s prayers because we’re in a very dangerous situation now as I speak. Also, some boys are going about attacking people because of being idle since the start of lockdown due to COVID-19.” Reports from Kano said many people have died in the city through a strange ailment that has ravaged the city. Speaking on the league, which is currently on suspension, Maikaba said Plateau United would return better than the form they were before the league was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has ravaged the entire world. The Maikaba-led team were cruising on top of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) until the League Management Company (LMC) adjourned the season indefinitely until the COVID-19 crisis was resolved. Plateau United had 43 points from 12 wins, seven draws, and six loses out of 25 matches played before the lockdown. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Maikaba said his boys would return better once the league resumes, adding, “I believe we will continue the way we started the season before the suspension. I am sure we will be coming back even stronger because we have only 13 games left to round up the season.” The former Akwa United coach, who expressed no regret over the interruption, said the lives of the people were more important than personal glory.
“The issue at hand here is about human beings health, their lives. And I think the LMC has taken the right decision by discontinuing the league. At least, everyone will go home so that both the players and the spectators do not have contact with the virus. “Once the government is able to put COVID-19 pandemic under control, we can then continue with the league proper. Our fans should look forward to better football hopefully when it resumes soon. “Our plan is to win the league before the final match of the season, which is the 8th game. My players should be ready to win more games so that the league would have been won before the final day of the season, which is our target,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .