 Panelists at the event  According to her, the need for cornerstone knowledge, with focus on information that answers self-discovery issues, building an intentional relationship with God and being a part of the right community, are actions for a productive life. On dealing with challenges, she advised women to focus first on getting healed of the situation and the next step should be speaking out, which could involve speaking to strangers. She also stressed the need to seek knowledge from survivors, professionals and God’s help. Founder, Katie Wang Company, Olori Boye-Ajayi noted that collaboration is key to longevity, emphasising that the process of growth can be painful but rewarding. She went on to encourage women in the growth stage to gradually go through the process and involve someone who has gone through similar experience.
  
Chief Executive Officer, Aymie Staffing Solutions, Elizabeth Ajetunmobi, said the ability to grow requires having systems in place. On raising children, she asked parents to focus on their strengths by uncovering their purpose and prepare them for the future. Eziaha Bolaji-Olojo, CEO, CoachE’Squad Limited, called on women to delegate duties with clarity in the job roles for adequate productivity and have an effective feedback system. Abiola Adediran of Midridge International noted that most women-owned businesses are at a stunted growth because they have been built around the founders. She added that in building global businesses, structures and systems need to be independent of the founder and this involves being deliberate in hiring and training of staff. She noted that lack of structure, in terms of cash flow, recruitment, managing employees or bookkeeping is the major cause of business frustrations, urging women to invest their funds in order to build institutions of value.  A major highlight of the conference was a fashion award session, titled: The MoBalo Fashion Awards, done in honour of the late Moradeun Balogun, an exceptional fashion enthusiast and visionary who was working to revolutionise Africa’s fashion industry through her work, FashionPro. The award recognised five outstanding female fashion entrepreneurs in operations within one to five years and demonstrated innovation in either the use of technology to promote fashion, afro-centric textiles and culture, focusing on green ideas, waste management or recycling in fashion industry, creative and future-forward fashion styles for today’s woman or using fashion for advocacy or social impact in communities. Finalists for The Young Fashion Entrepreneurs Award were, CEO Maple Street, Iyanu Ajayi; CEO Folabomi, Toluwaleye Odunsi; CEO Shapes and Colours, Omolara Teshola; CEO BEEHC, Wumi Beyioku and CEO Faidez Wears, Deborah Famuwagun. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .