A member of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN’s) National Executive Committee, Ibrahim Gayus, has applauded petroleum marketers, especially in the Northeast for their support to governments in the fight against the dreaded COVID-19. He said despite visible temptations to either divert or increase pump price, IPMAN, PTD and other groups in the chain of petroleum distribution still maintain status quo that guaranteed availability of the product at this critical time. Gayus refuted the controversial claim of the former president of the association, Alhaji Aminu Abubakar as the chairman IPMAN Board of Trustees (BoT) which he is not as allegedly said in a popular television programme. Addressing The Guardian in Yola, Adamawa State capital, Gayus said the authentic chairman of IPMAN BoT is Lawson Obasi, describing Abubaka’s stance as “a complete misrepresentation.” Allaying fear of a “divided house,” Gayus argued that there can never be any chairman for BoT without election and ratification by the NEC to which he belongs. He said, “Abubakar’s claim is anarchical; is a well-planned attempt to destabilise an established government recognised by the federal government.” He, however, threatened legal action to curb “excesses of Abubakar and his likes now and in future,” adding that “IPMAN as a law-abiding body (and) will follow due process to prosecute him.” Efforts to get Abubakar’s response proved abortive as his personal assistant Muhammed Mbaba told our correspondent that his boss was sleeping each time a call was placed. IPMAN’s secretary Danladi Pasali is also not reachable for comments as his phone was unavailable. Gayus, however, appreciated the Inspector General of Police for free mobility of petroleum products in the northeast. He also condoled with President Muhammadu Buhari on the deaths of his Chief of Staff late Abba Kyari and many Nigerians as the world battles COVID-19  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .