Gernot Rohr • Erico sues for amicable resolution of ‘conflict’
Former international, Henry Nwosu, has advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to sack Gernot Rohr if his services are no longer needed instead of giving him stringent conditions that would force him to quit the Super Eagles. Nwosu said the conditions set for the coach by the NFF clearly showed that the federation did not have a cordial relationship with the Franco-German tactician. He noted that it was dangerous for the NFF to continue celebrating the conditions before Rohr’s contract would be renewed, saying it would affect the Super Eagles in the build up to the AFCON and World Cup qualifiers. “With the recent declaration by the NFF president on Rohr’s contract renewal, you don’t need a soothsayer to tell you the federation is not interested in working with Rohr again. “How will you expect the Eagles coach to accept that he has stipulated times to leave the country every year, his team lists will be screened by the NFF Technical Committee before being released, among other conditions lined up for him. “I don’t think the NFF still wants to still work with Rohr. They should just let him go. I don’t feel that Rohr also will accept the conditions. The NFF should sack him and end the issue in a respectable manner. “Rohr has done well with the Super Eagles and I don’t understand why renewing his contract has been dragging all this while,” he said. Also speaking on the issue, former Super Eagles Assistant Coach, Joe Erico said Rohr has the choice to either accept or refuse the terms given to him by the NFF. Erico advised that issues surrounding Rohr’s contract should be resolved by the parties involved in a peaceful manner. “This is a business contract and the NFF has stipulated what they want from Rohr. It is left for the Super Eagles coach to accept or refuse the conditions given to him… it is not a do or die affair. “But one aspect I think Rohr will not likely accept is the screening of his list of players for national assignments. No coach that knows his onions will like to work under such a condition. “Also, the aspect that he must travel within a number of times is not right. His assistants can also watch the domestic league and give him a feedback. “This is a business contract and both parties need to be professional in their conduct,” Erico declared. Gernot Rohr was first appointed as Super Eagles’ coach in August 2016 on a two-year deal. The NFF renewed his contract in January 2018. Rohr’s current contract will expire June in 2020.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .