Galih Ginanjar and Fairuz A Rafiq | Oddity Galih Ginanjar, an Indonesian actor has been sentenced to two years and four months in prison for claiming his ex-wife Fairuz A Rafiq’s genitalia smelled like “salted fish.” The soap opera actor made the humiliating commenting while appearing as a guest in June 2019 on a popular YouTube show hosted by TV personality Rey Utami. On the show, he answered questions about his personal life including his failed marriage to Rafiq that ended in 2015. Not shying away from vulgar language, he described intimate details of his life with Rafiq who is also an actress.  Among other things, he said that intercourse between them usually lasted about 15 minutes and that her privates smelled like “salted fish”. Unlike the show’s host that found it funny and burst into laughter, Rafiq filed a police report for “immoral content”. “Those immoral words have badly hurt my heart as well as all Indonesian women, and they have brought great shame to my husband and my family,” Fairuz A Rafiq said in a statement, last year. “What made it hurt even more was that the [YouTube] account owners, Rey Utami and Benua, were laughing while spreading the immoral content, by encouraging everyone to subscribe and publish it as many times as possible to increase their subscriber count.” Indonesian drama Galih Ginanjar and the owners of the YouTube channel were the remarks were made – Rey Utami and her husband Pablo Benua – were charged with three alternative articles on immorality, humiliation, and defamation under Indonesia’s Information and Electronic Transactions Act. They all risked six years in prison but were sentenced to much less prison time via teleconference. Judge Agus Widodo sentenced Galih to 2 years and 4 months behind bars, while Utami got one year and four months, and her husband one year and 8 months. The defendants’ attorneys said they might consider appealing the sentences. Shortly after the verdict was announced, Rafiq took to Instagram to applaud the outcome of the trial. “Lies can cover up the truth, but not eliminate it… it’s only a matter of time until the truth prevails… Allahu ‘akbar (Allah is greater [than everything]). Thank you, ya Allah,” she wrote. Although the video has since been taken down, copies of it have since been reuploaded on YouTube, with some getting over 3 million views. We earlier reported the story of a Kenyan man who was arraigned in court for telling a trader her vagina smells. According to reports, the middle-aged man who is a porter-cum-menial worker got into a heated exchange with the trader identified as Nyakobe. 