Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik | Life & Style Celebrity couple Gigi Hadid and Zayn Malik are expectant parents after news broke that Gigi is currently pregnant with their first child. Celebrity gossip site, TMZ, broke the news that the supermodel is 20 weeks into her pregnancy and that her singer boyfriend is the father. The gossip site credits “family sources” for this information. Us Weekly’s source added that Hadid has “always wanted to start a family with Zayn.” As of now, the sex of the baby remains unknown. There is no pictorial evidence or confirmation of the news but fans are freaking out. Gigi Hadi and Zayn Malik | Hollywood Life The news comes just after Gigi celebrated her 25th birthday in self-isolation with Malik and her sister Bella Hadid. They are all quarantined on their Pennsylvania farm and have been posting periodic social-media updates.  Hadid spoke about wanting to eventually have a family in an interview with i-D magazine in February. “I think that as I get older… well one day I’ll start a family and I don’t know if I will always be modeling,” she said when asked about her future in the fashion industry. “I love the creative side of fashion, it’s so fulfilling. The people I work with make me so happy, I’m so lucky to be around them. But who knows? Maybe I’ll take up full time cooking!” The couple began dating in 2015 after the met a party. Speaking about their love, Malik once told British Vogue: “Everything is great. She’s super organized and I’m really not. It helps that she can get things together for me a little bit. I lean on her a lot.” They also share a horse together named Cool. “I’m really thankful that I met her,” he added to GQ. “I had a very negative outlook on things. That might have been adolescence or testosterone or whatever the fuck was running through my body at the time. She’s helped me to look at things from a positive angle.” It hasn’t been a bed of roses in their relationship as they have broken up a few times but gotten back together to give their relationship another chance.