 Kayode Fayemi  Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has relaxed the stay-at-home order imposed on the citizens of the state since March 29. According to the governor, citizens are allowed to ply their trades between 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday and Thursday this week to restock and undertake economic activities that would keep their households till the curfew would be lifted. Fayemi, who stated this yesterday while kick-starting the distribution of relief materials to vulnerable people in the state, said: “I just got out of self-isolation this morning and this is the first state function I will perform. “I decided to keep away from you in order not to return to self-isolation I had to observe as part of the ways to checkmate the spread of this virus.”
He said that the stay-at-home order was taken to protect the lives of the populace in view of the nature of the spread of the Coronavirus. “We want to appreciate the tolerance and support of our people since the lockdown began. We know that the spread of COVID -19 was daunting, but with unity of purpose, we will overcome. Fayemi said the government would work out modalities to give financial supports to those whose businesses had been adversely affected by the restriction slammed on the state to rout COVID -19. Meanwhile, the immediate past governor of the state, Ayodele Fayose, has urged government at all levels, religious bodies, corporate organisations and individuals to focus on full-time strategic implementation of “stomach infrastructure,” warning that hunger could kill quicker than Coronavirus. In a statement by his Spokesperson, Lere Olayinka, the former governor hailed the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for what he described as “his proactive and unrelenting efforts in the management of these challenges as well as his transparency and interface with the people.” He urged the Federal Government to emulate the Lagos State government and do more in the area of prompt information dissemination so as to stem the tide of misinformation in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .