Obiano Umahi orders payment of April salaries as NAU refutes alleged case
Apprehension pervades in Anambra State as Governor Willie Obiano ends his self-isolation today over the outcome and his status, as he awaits result of the test conducted on him at the Irrua Specialist Hospital, Edo State. So far, all samples taken from the state for screening have tested negative, an indication that Anambra State has no case of COVID-19, according to Secretary to the State Government, Professor Solo Chukwulobelu. Chukwulobelu, who doubles as Secretary of the Anambra State Action Committee on COVID-19 pandemic stated at a media briefing that there was panic last week over an alleged suspected case, but after the test, the result proved negative. He said Governor Obiano adopted proactive measures to avert possible spread of the virus in the state, stressing that government’s focus on prevention has been largely successful. While appreciating all those who have supported the Committee on Covid-19 in cash and kind, he pointed out that the state has spent about N1 billion in procurement of facilities and equipment to present and contain the spread of Coronavirus. The list of donors includes UBA Plc with a N28.5m cash donation, while Obijackson Group donated 4,000 facemasks and 200 units of protective gears for care providers, just as Obiano approved ten per cent refund on all personal income taxes paid by business owners and traders in 2019. Chairman of Anambra State Internal Revenue Service (AIRS), Dr. David Nzekwu, said the measure was part of government’s economic stimulus packages to help cushion the economic and other adverse effects of the disease. In a related development, Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi has directed immediate payment of April 2020 salaries to civil servants in state. The governor, however, refuted claims that he ordered security operatives to shoot on site any of the arrested 37 returnees who entered Ebonyi through the bush after he ordered shut down of its borders while attempting to escape from a quarantine centre. “I said I was isolating whoever escaped. We have 30 Ebonyi people who escaped through the bush. One trailer loaded them from the bush and we have seven persons from Abia, Cross River, Delta, Onitsha and Rivers. “So, we are taking the 37 of them and we have prepared an isolation centre in the stadium and we will feed them three times daily. The medical team will examine them and they will stay here for 14-days,” he explained. Meanwhile, management of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NAU), Awka has dismissed rumours that Vice Chancellor of the university, Professor Charles Esimone, has tested positive for coronavirus. In a statement issued in Awka, Acting Head, Information and Public Relations Unit, Mrs. Chika Gladys Ene, told newsmen that the rumour was false, insisting that there was no coronavirus in NAU. “The attention of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University has been drawn to a story that Vice Chancellor, Professor Charles Okechukwu Esimone, tested positive for COVID-19 and has been quarantined. This is false and should be disregarded,” the statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .