• Resident Doctors, UBTH Differ On Conflicting Results
•State Unveils Education Television Programmes For Students To Curtail Spread Controversy has continued to trail the death of a COVID-19 patient in Edo State at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), as both the Association of Resident Doctors (ARB UBTH Branch) and the hospital management have differed over the patient’s death. The development came as the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), on Friday, confirmed the death of two coronavirus patients in Edo and Lagos states. The resident doctors, in separate releases, however, said the health facility had no confirmed cases of COVID-19 being managed anywhere in UBTH. “ARD UBTH has been closely following up on two suspected cases of COVID-19 currently in the Isolation ward in UBTH. “Both patients were moved to the isolation ward on March 31, 2020, based on suspicion of COVID-19 “Samples were sent for PCR at The Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital (ISTH) same day. They were both being managed for medical illnesses: Chronic Kidney Disease and Bronchopnuemonia. “The patient with Chronic Kidney Disease, unfortunately died, while the other is still receiving care. “Both results returned negative for COVID-19. “We wish to reassure members that, as of today, there are no confirmed cases of COVID-19 being managed anywhere in UBTH,” ARD said. Meanwhile, another update posted on the ARD UBTH news platform contradicted the doctors’ position, as it stated that the results of the two suspected COVID-19 cases previously declared negative had turned out to be positive, after further tests.ARD UBTH in another release said: “It has been brought to our notice with great dismay that the earlier results of the two suspected COVID-19 cases previously declared negative have turned out to be positive after further tests. “While the ARD UBTH cannot fully ascertain at this time what may have led to this, it has become imperative at this point to inform our members on the sudden turn of events. “We have been informed by the infectious disease team that new samples (from the patient that is still alive) have been taken and sent out for further investigation…” Allaying workers’ fears at the facility, the UBTH management weekend, said it had received “conflicting results on the COVID-19 status of two of our patients.” Chief Medical Director of UBTH, Prof.  Darlington Obaseki in an internal memo, said another sample had been collected for confirmation. “While we await this result, the patient has been moved to the Isolation Ward for continued management. “Contact tracing has commenced for all staff, who had direct contact with the patient. “Terminal disinfection has been mandated for all places the patient was managed…” “Management enjoins everyone to remain calm and continue to observe the necessary standard precautions…” NCDC, on Friday night, confirmed the death of two patients of coronavirus in the country. Meanwhile, Edo government, yesterday, unveiled education television programmes for students preparing for West African Senior  School Examinations(WASSCE) and National Examination Council(NECO) for May/June/July 2020. Commissioner for Education in the Edo, Jimoh Ijegbai disclosed this in a statement, in Benin. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .