  They were suspected to have exposed themselves to coronavirus after coming in contact with a suspect (now deceased). The suspect, who owned the hotel had returned from Germany considered a high-risk country, but allegedly was refused to observe self -isolation after which he visited the hotel and village in Aboh Mbaise, Imo State, before flying to Abuja. The Guardian learnt that after a couple of days, he developed symptoms of the disease and died days after, which led to the state government closing the hotel with all guests and workers being quarantined, was given N10, 000 to transport themselves home, while being directed to self-isolate for seven days. This was contained in a statement issued by Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Edith Obi - Okoro, on behalf of the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Damaris Osunkwo. A cross section of trained personnel ready for the fight against COVID-19 infection and prevention by Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma in Owerri…at the weekend.<br />  Besides, Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu has blamed the coronavirus pandemic for delay of the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), which is a key component of President Muhammadu Buhari’s agrarian revolution. Okechukwu said this while addressing farmers in Enugu State at the weekend over the non-arrival of farm inputs, seedlings and tractors from the Federal Government. He assured the farmers that President Buhari and the governors were doing their best to contain the COVID 19 pandemic and appealed for patience and understanding. Okechukwu reiterated that the Anchor Borrowers Programme, which was launched by the President on November 17, 2015, had no direct interest rate attached to smallholders’ farmers. Meanwhile, Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi has begun fumigation of the state as part of measures to curtail the spread of coronavirus. Unveiling the exercise at the Margaret Umahi International Market, Abakaliki, the governor, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr. Kelechi Igwe, noted that the exercise was necessary to disinfect public places to reduce the risk of contacting coronavirus and other diseases. He noted that the Margaret Umahi International Market, Kpirikpiri Market and other public places would not operate on Sundays until the battle against coronavirus was won, adding that the measure was to allow health workers to fumigate those places every Sunday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .