 Rev. John Okene  One of the wisest men in Bible times in the person of King Solomon, pictured a prince trekking and his servant riding upon a horse, as seen in Eccl.10: 5-7. According to King Solomon, this is another error he saw under the sun. A prince actually is a male member of a royal family. He is the son of the sovereign ruler and in some cases, the heir apparent to the throne. So, it is abnormal to see a prince trekking, while the servant is riding on a horse. Princes are meant to be on horses, while servants walk on foot. God Who made the universe gave each its place according to time and season. The situation, as seen in our Bible passage, may not sound appealing in contemporary times, but it was the case at the time of Solomon’s writing. Slaves do not mount horses. This is the preserve of princes. What is presented here, beyond an exchange of roles, is also the exchange of glory, splendour, dignity, authority and destiny. For a prince to trek, while his servant rides on a horse, means the prince’s destiny has been exchanged. Princes are destined to ride on horses, while slaves are destined to trek. Do you know that as a child of God, you are a prince? A son to the sovereign God? You are ordained or destined to ride on horses, not to trek. Romans 8:14 “For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.”  Many sons of God today are living below their potential; some are even begging to eat, while the unbelievers are living in splendour. Sin has reduced some believers to beggars, while others, because of ignorance of who they are, the devil has hijacked the horse of their destiny and they are trekking. Galatians 4:1 “Now I say, that the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he is lord of all.” One of the reasons a prince will be trekking and his servant riding on the horse is ignorance. The above scripture explained that, as long as an heir remains a child (lacking understanding and wisdom), he is not different from the servant, even though his father is the owner of the estate. The heir that is a child (immature) does not know his rights; hence cannot exercise it. Whenever the heir comes to maturity as a result of knowledge, he quickly takes over. I decree, in the name of Jesus, you are taking over. Another reason why a prince to trek, while the servant rides on a horse is the foundation. Just like Jacob, at his naming ceremony, the parents called him Jacob, meaning a “supplanter.” Based on this, he lived a life of deceit. He was a prince yet living in his minimum rather than his maximum. Not until he had an encounter with God in the place of prayers that the trekking prince (Jacob) became the riding prince (Israel). Many people today are like Jacob, trekking to their place of destiny, rather than riding on their horse of destiny because of their foundation. Foundation is that part of a building in the underground that holds the weight of the structure. If the foundation is faulty then it will struggle to hold the building. Psalm 11:3 “If the foundations are destroyed, what can the righteous do?” Because of the foundation, the wrong people are ruling, while the right people are frustrated. This is an error. Today, may God correct every error in your life in Jesus name. According to King Solomon in Eccl.10: 5-7, a lot of princes have their feet covered in dust because they are trekking. Dust on the feet signifies suffering of slavery. Nobody celebrates a man whose life is covered with dust. You must shake off that dust from your body and get ready to mount your horse of destiny again. Until you shake off the dust, you cannot arise. There is dust of past misfortune, the dust of disappointment in past relationships, disappointment in business, the dust of losses; dust the enemy placed on you that is causing regrets of the past. Whatsoever happened in the past has happened, and you don’t need to continue in the mistake of the past. You can cry out like Jacob and have your destiny restored. Beloved, until you arise from the dust, you can never shine. Isaiah 60:1 “Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.” It is time for you to shine. I decree in Jesus name, your days of trekking as a prince are over. Rev. John Okene, Divine Touch Int’l Ministries, Warri, Delta State.
dtimchurch@gmail.com
Prayerline: +2348135952623 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .