The Ogun State police command has arrested two armed robbery suspects, Ayomide Joseph and Olajide Ajisomo for allegedly robbing two brothers at gunpoint. The suspects, according to a statement by the command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in Abeokuta yesterday, were arrested following a report lodged at Mowe police station by one Adegoke Sodipe, who reported that while he was coming from Lagos with his brother, they were attacked at Ikugbonmire junction, Mowe by three armed robbery suspects. Oyeyemi disclosed that the victims were dispossessed of their personal belongings, which include Infinix phone valued at N25,000, UBA ATM card, and So-safe corps identity card. According to Oyeyemi, the victims raised the alarm, which attracted passersby and one of the hoodlums was apprehended by members of the public. “Upon the report, the DPO Mowe division SP Marvis Jayeola quickly dispatched his detectives to the scene where the arrested member of the gang was handed over to the police”, Oyeyemi said. He added: “Having taken possession of the suspect, the operatives embarked on intelligent-based investigation, which led to the arrest of the second suspect. A locally-made double barrel shot gun was recovered from them”. The Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered that the suspects be transferred to Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) for discreet investigation. Ebrimson reiterated the readiness of the command to clampdown on any would be criminal within the state during and after this pandemic period. Meanwhile, in Adamawa State, 38-year old Ashiru Sule is presently assisting Adamawa police command with information on the rampant kidnappings in and around the state. Ashiru was alleged by the police to have masterminded many kidnappings and collected several millions of naira ransom. The Guardian reliably gathered that Sule was involved in his elder brother’s kidnap with N5million as ransom when he met his waterloo. The police told our reporter that the accused has been on the command’s wanted list for a long time. Confirming the report, Police Public Relations Officer, Suleiman Nguoroje, said Ashiru was arrested in Girei local government area of the state. Police said it recovered from Sule one AK-47 rifle with 17 rounds of live ammunitions, adding that before his arrest, the accused was planned and executed many kidnappings in Girei and Song local governments. Describing Sule as a game planner to kidnappings, police said the suspect coordinated several criminal activities, demanded and received ransom from his targets. The Commissioner of Police appreciated the people of Adamawa for their resilience, urging them to support and cooperate with his men at all times, assuring them of his commitment to protect lives and properties. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .