• State under threat of community transmission, says Ganduje
• Reps caucus writes Buhari, summons minister, others The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has arrived Kano State to unravel the mystery behind the mystery deaths in the state. When the delegation visited Governor Abdullahi Ganduje at Government House yesterday, leader of the team, Dr. Nasiru Gwarzo, declared that they were in the state with full commitment to unravel the cause of the mass deaths. About 60 people reportedly died in the state in one day, in what has been seen as mystery deaths. Gwarzo, who is also the permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Industries, Commerce and Investment, told Ganduje that the PTF received marching orders to evaluate the worrying situation in Kano and finding lasting solution. With array of experienced epidemiologists and other technical personnel, Gwarzo said the team was ready to support the state to review cases of COVID-19 and determine whether or not the mysterious deaths had connection with it. However, the governor has raised fresh alarm of looming spread of COVID-19 in the state. He told the delegation that Kano was witnessing community transmission of the deadly virus. Ganduje explained that despite measures entrenched to curb the spread of the disease in the state, his government was still battling with cultural and traditional perceptions of the virus. While applauding President Muhammadu Buhari’s total lockdown of Kano, he said it should have cut across the federation for maximum results. Meanwhile, the Kano caucus in the House of Representatives has cried out to the authorities to help in curtailing the spate of deaths linked to COVID-19 in the state. House Majority Leader, Mr. Ado Doguwa, who briefed reporters at the National Assembly complex in Abuja, enjoined the state and federal governments to do more in terms of funding for the facilities and provide more test centres to check the spread of the virus. The lawmakers maintained that the situation in Kano deserved attention of the authorities in view of the state’s cosmopolitan nature. “We have all engaged our constituents in every ramification. We have engaged them in terms of sensitisation, enlightened them on the need to comply with the social distancing order. “That is why we have decided to come back to engage relevant agencies of government, especially Mr. President, for them to see why Kano should be given a special treatment,” Doguwa said. The caucus summoned the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire; Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), who chairs the PTF, Mr. Boss Mustapha; and the Director General of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, to appear before the lawmakers next week Tuesday. The decision followed the adoption of a motion under matters of national importance moved by Doguwa at an emergency plenary presided by Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila. But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House has accused the PTF of not doing enough to stem the mysterious deaths in Kano. Led by Kingsley Chinda, the caucus also blamed the Kano government and NCDC in the unfortunate incidence. The caucus said the development was more worrisome, coming in the wake of COVID-19. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .