Reviews Stimulus Programmes, To Foot Medical Bills Of Some Residents
Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, revealed that over 400 vehicles had been impounded by security agencies for flouting the stay-at-home order, aimed at curbing the spread of Coronavirus. The governor, who revealed this after a security meeting with security agencies in Lagos, thanked the security agencies for helping to ensure order, but implored them to be compassionate in enforcing the lockdown. He said the security agencies have assured him to continue to secure residents’ lives and properties, though they would not entertain breakdown of law and order. Sanwo-Olu maintained that his administration was committed to citizens’ welfare and that it did not envisage some of the teething problems experienced with the stimulus package programme. “I must assure you that we have since returned to the drawing board for a more superior strategy to ensure that this laudable programme is not compromised by the sheer irresponsibility of a few, and that the full palliative impact is realised across the state. “Let me also seize this opportunity to announce an additional ameliorating measure to complement the welfare packages previously announced, as follows: “The Lagos State Government will, for the duration of the restriction on movement, take full responsibility for the medical bills of all patients who fall in the following categories, at all Lagos State-owned secondary healthcare facilities: Emergency/Casualty cases, including registration, laboratory tests, surgeries, and drugs. Maternity Cases: Normal delivery and Caesarean Sections “What this means is that, at this time, patients with the above-listed conditions will not need to pay to access treatment and care at all our 27 General Hospitals across the state. “Let me, again, seize this opportunity to remind you all that, while the road ahead remains long and uncertain, I must however tell you that the bulk of the battle is fought and won in the mind. We must condition our minds and reinforce our psyche to take on that winning approach.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .