Apparently, this is the first time Nigerians will experience a situation of total lockdown where all socio economic and political activities are locked down as a result of the Corona Virus (COVID-19) pandemic, which has sent the entire world panicking. The Federal Government and states have no choice but to give a stay-at-home directive which has entered the second week as part of measures to contain the pandemic from spreading.
 
Unlike any other experience, what is peculiar with the present situation is the social distancing directive in which parents, who are compelled to stay indoors have the additional responsibilities, not only to keep their wards, but to also monitor how their children interact with their pairs within the environment as part of efforts to prevent a further spread of COVID-19.
 
While many parents who shared their ordeals with The Guardian agreed with the directive as a child of necessity government must do, they were however apprehensive of the fact that government failed to put necessary mechanism in place to cushion the effect of the stay-at-home order.
 
For instance, a similar and peculiar complaint among the parents was the poverty level of many Nigerians, who during the lockdown have to beat the order to find a means to feed their children.  “I engaged them with things that will entice them. For example, they don’t want to read but I made sure we watch “Crash courses programmes on YouTube and they pay more attention since it’s visual.”
 
Another parent, Chief Executive Officer, Cashiff Communications Ltd, Mr Olatunde Danisa said he has no choice than to cope by observing the recommended social distance measure. “We go out to buy food stuffs once in a while and security and police walk around the market reminding the traders to close by 2pm. Markets open from 10am to 2pm daily. Food items were quite expensive two days to the lockdown but it reduced drastically because people don’t have enough money to purchase.”
 
One serious challenge is that children do not really understand why they should be kept at home perpetually, “they get tired of even watching television and reading books.”
 
Danisa also lamented that hoodlums are capitalising on the situation to rob people in broad daylight.  Chude said one of the major benefits of the forced stay at home is that it has helped to bring families physically together.
   
The managing director 3way media communication Ltd. (Brand communication & management consulting, Peter Ugbu said the lockdown is a bit awkward and challenging especially for busy parents that go out on daily basis  “when you have to make ends meet and provide direction (when you don’t have all the answers) example is the question of what will be the new normal in the aftermath of COVID-19, the uncertainty regarding economy, health and others.”
 
He said government, understandably focused on mitigation of the spread of the pandemic but fails to put adequate measure in place to help parents cope. “No parent will want to have bunch of hungry kids in the house.” Mr. Ekene Okoro, a journalist said the lockdown has not been easy, “but we welcome it since it’s for our safety. Working from home as a journalist is not new to me, but doing so for two consecutive weeks is already telling on me psychologically.
 
“But the bigger challenge is having the children at home at this same time. It’s a good time to bond, but really, the task is enormous. Everyday springs up a new challenge from their numerous needs. They have been consuming more food than normal. I have to cope with five of them presently under my care. In some days, they could eat like five to seven times a day! Other days might be more.”
 
Okoro noted that the period afforded him the time to teach the children a few things, catch up and monitor what they have been doing while in school. At the initial stage, they didn’t understand why we couldn’t go to school, church, salon and also go out to relaxation centres as we often do on weekends. I appreciate that we may never have such period in our lifetime, post-Covid-19, so I am making the most of it filling the role as their first teacher and instructor.
 
National Coordinator D’ Stewards, Ms Toyin Adesokan said the situation has brought about a change, which is the only thing that is constant.
 
“My family is a large one in the opposite. A child of eight years. I did not do panic buying I only bought what was necessary. I inverted snacks by myself. After praying in the morning and doing house chores, I give her a book to read, she watches the TV, and thanks to NEPA they are doing great in my area. I must confess I allow her go play in my closest apartment. Hand sanitiser is handy. My phone is available for her to read some stories.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .