Dissatisfied with Federal Government’s method of sharing stipends to vulnerable Nigerians to cushion the effect of Coronavirus induced lockdown, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), has flayed the methodology, insisting that it would not achieve the desired results. In a statement issued yesterday by its Spokesman, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere, it stressed that the method could only be likened to a joke, a child’s play and mundane. “Federal Government’s method of sharing stipends to a few people as palliative is a joke, child’s play, window dressing and a political trick that will not achieve the desire of reaching out to millions of genuinely vulnerable people. “The CUPP condemns the method the Federal Government has adopted to share stipends to a few people as palliative is a joke, child’s play, orchestrated window dressing a political trick and a bogus attempt to loot scarce resources in these very trying times,” the statement reads. The group said it would take a long time with the system adopted by the minister in charge to personally share the stipend to about 10.6 million targeted vulnerable persons. “With an estimated 10.6 million people in government’s social register and giving the President’s directive that each person should get two month’s payment, the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development began sharing cash to the people. “How many thousands of poor people will share money to personally in such a way to achieve the essence of reaching out to the most vulnerable? Does she expect to tell Nigerians that she shared over N200 billion only in cash? Can the Federal Government convince Nigerian that this money got to the real poorest of the poor in the communities? it asked. Meanwhile, a coalition of several civil society organisations led by Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA Resource Centre), has urged the government to ensure that donated funds were disbursed in an open and transparent manner. Its Chairman, Olanrewaju Suraju in the statement signed by 25 other civil society organisations, stressed that the Federal and state governments have been asked to ensure transparency in the management of the over N30bn donated by different groups and institutions towards the management of the coronavirus pandemic. Also, the Nigeria Tax Justice and Governance Platform have charged the government at all levels to increase their accountability and transparency measures in the deployment of COVID-19 Intervention funds. The group, comprising Oxfam, ActionAid, ChristianAid, Centre for Democracy and Development, The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and Civil Society Legislative and Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), also canvassed monitoring mechanisms towards ensuring that funds meant for the COVID-19 intervention are accounted for and judiciously utilised. In a statement issued by its Spokesman, Chinedu Bassey (CISLAC), the groups reaffirmed their solidarity with government and people as the country passes through these trying times together. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .