Ifeanyi Okowa. PHOTO: TWITTER Medical director seeks test centre in state urgently
After 30 days of total lockdown to slow the spread of the novel coronavirus, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has relaxed the exercise, allowing economic activities to resume tomorrow in Delta State. During a broadcast yesterday in Asaba, the governor said residents were to engage in trading and other commercial endeavours between 6am and 7pm daily. As a first step, he disclosed that the state will, today, commence the distribution of one million facemasks to residents through the local council offices. He commended Deltans for their understanding, noting: “Our state has been relatively peaceful during the lockdown, which was a proactive step to keep the coronavirus pandemic at bay. “It speaks of your trust and confidence in the integrity of the structures and processes we put in place to combat the disease. The security agencies also deserve our commendation for their sacrifice, patience and professional conduct.” “It has become necessary to partially lift the ban on movements within the state effective Thursday, April 30, 2020,” he added. The governor went on: “Conferences, sporting activities, gathering of people in conventions/event centres, sports fields, public/open spaces as well as recreational and cultural/communal activities remain banned until May 31, 2020. “While burials and weddings will be allowed, the social distancing rule (six feet apart) must be applied, and the number of guests/persons must not exceed 50. Our schools (public and private) remain closed until Sunday, May 31, 2020. “Entertainment centres, including cinemas, bars and night clubs remain closed until Sunday, May 31, 2020. “Our airports remain closed to passenger traffic till further notice.” He further said: I shall be meeting with our religious leaders on Thursday, April 30, 2020, to chart the way forward for our places of worship. However, all crusades/conventions remain banned until further notice. “For the public service, only workers on Grade Level 12 and above should resume work effective Thursday, April 30. This order does not apply to junior staff on essential/emergency duties.” Meanwhile, the Zonal Medical Director overseeing the COVID-19 treatment centres in Warri and Ekpan general hospitals, Dr. Paul Okubor, has called for the immediate establishment of the virus test centre in the state. Speaking yesterday in Warri while conducting members of the Delta chapter of the Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria (APBN) round the isolation facilities, Okubor stated that the appeal became necessary in view of the long distance that is being covered in taking samples to the Specialist Hospital in Irrua, Edo State.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .