Funke Akindele and JJC Skillz | Pulse Nollywood actress Funke Akindele and her producer husband JJC Skillz have come under heavy bashing from Nigerians on social media. The backlash trailing the celebrity couple is due to the house party they recently held in celebration of JJC Skillz’s 43rd birthday. JJC turned 43 yesterday and the “Jenifa Diaries” star had taken to social media to celebrate her husband. In an Instagram post, she wrote: “Happy birthday my darling husband. The Lord will Grant you longer life and good health. Thank you for being a sweetheart! Our home will always be peaceful and the Lord will continue to bless us. Enjoy your day my King @jjcskillz #babaibeji I can’t forget this beautiful picture?? Thanks for all the joy and happiness you have brought into our lives. Love you Bolarinde?? #birthdayboyinabi.t @jjcskillz #myking #babaibeji.” However, the couple has now come under heavy fire after JJC posted videos from a house party celebration in honour of his 43rd birthday. Funke Akindele and JJC Skillz | MediaGuide In a video clip that has since gone viral on social media, the couple can be seen dancing to singer Naira Marley’s “Tesu Mole” song. Naira Marley himself was in attendance and can be seen smiling as other party guests vibed to his music. The house party held at their home in Amen Estate, located in Ibeju-Lekki axis of The Lekki Peninsula, Lagos. Following the video’s release, angry Nigerians are calling for the arrest of the actress and her husband for their “thoughtlessness.” Watch a clip from the house party below:  Last Sunday, Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari announced the country and declared a lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and Abuja in a bid to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. Since the coronavirus outbreak, people all across the globe have been advised to practice social distancing. Ironically, Funke Akindele also happens to be a brand ambassador for Dettol and a major driver of the Clean Naija initiative. The initiative aims to create awareness, educate and drive behavioral change among Nigerians in order to achieve a cleaner nation through the continuous habit of handwashing. Since the outbreak of the coronavirus which could be prevented with regular washing of hands, Akindele has appeared in adverts campaigning for people to keep good hygiene. To many, having a house party at this time negates the works she has been doing to help spread the curb of the virus. Check out reactions from Nigerian Twitter below:          