Businesses in Nigeria have identified liquidity and staff safety among the most pressing needs they are concerned about, as they grapple with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, latest survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) Nigeria, has revealed.
 
The findings were revealed during a recent webinar hosted by the firm, on the economic implications and policy responses to COVID-19.
 
The survey had about 3,000 respondents ranging from managers to Chief Executive Officers and business owners. Asked what their top business concerns were, 22.5 per cent pointed at liquidity – the availability of immediate cash to pay bills especially following disruption of business activities currently being experienced.
 
This was followed by safety of staff at 15.4 per cent, an indication that Nigerian businesses are people-focused, and was not only concerned about their profitability.  Majority of the survey respondents think that governments interventions have either been grossly inadequate comprising 23.8 per cent or inadequate (43.9 per cent), with 17.5 per cent expressing indifference to what government has done up to the date of the survey. Only 14.4 per cent agree that government’s intervention has met their expectations.
     
This provides a clear message to government both at the federal and state levels, pointing either to the need to do more, or to better communicate what is being done already to help shape public perception.
     
Among the top two areas that respondents believe government’s intervention should be focused include tax relief representing 30 per cent, provision of loans at zero or low interest rate comprised of 29.3 per cent, and cash transfer to the poor with 16.9 per cent.
   
Overall, the businesses surveyed agree that the private sector has a role to play in supporting government’s fight against Covid-19 with 85.5 per cent suggesting that they are best suited to provide support in the area of provision of items, equipment and facilities compared to only 10.7 per cent who will consider donating cash to government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .