(FILES) In this file photo David McKean, Maeve Kennedy Townsend Mckean and their children (son Gideon 2R) attend the Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights Hosts 2019 Ripple Of Hope Gala & Auction In NYC on December 12, 2019 in New York City. – Two members of the Kennedy political dynasty, including a grand-niece of John F. Kennedy, are now presumed dead after they went missing during a canoe trip, the family said on April 4, 2020. This time it involves a grand-niece of the late president, Maeve Kennedy McKean, 40, and her eight-year-old son Gideon. They disappeared Thursday while canoeing in the South River in Maryland, near the vast Chesapeake Bay, Governor Larry Hogan said Friday. (Photo by Mike PONT / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / AFP) The body of John F. Kennedy’s grand-niece who disappeared during a canoe trip with her young son was recovered Monday, US media reported. Maeve Kennedy McKean, 40, and her eight-year-old son Gideon went missing Thursday while canoeing in the vast Chesapeake Bay in Maryland. The search for Gideon will resume Tuesday, the Washington Post reported, citing Maryland Natural Resources Police. The family said Saturday that mother and son were presumed dead. It is the latest chapter of heartbreak for the Kennedy political dynasty that has suffered multiple tragedies since President Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas in 1963. McKean’s body was found more than two miles from the waterfront home of her mother, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, where the family had been staying to isolate themselves during the coronavirus outbreak, the Post said. She and Gideon had gone to retrieve a ball that had fallen into the water, it said, citing relatives and police. They appeared to have been swept away in strong currents and winds. A search team using aviation and underwater imaging sonar technology located her body. Kennedy Townsend, 68, is a former Maryland lieutenant governor, and the daughter of Robert F. Kennedy, the onetime US attorney general in his brother’s administration. RFK was himself slain in 1968 as he campaigned for president five years after his brother’s death. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .