Of the 71 suspects tested for the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Katsina State, five returned positive while one died in Daura Council. Chairman of the Katsina State Special Taskforce Committee on Sensitisation on COVID-19, Abdulkarim Sirika, made this known yesterday while briefing newsmen on the committee’s activities. Sirika, who doubles as the Commissioner for Information, said the 71 suspects had their samples were taken to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Abuja, a few days ago to determine their status. He said the five that tested positive for the disease included the Dr. Aliyu Yakubu, who died over a week ago, his wife, two children, and staff working at his private hospital in Daura. He, however, said the number of suspects that returned positive with the disease had made it easier for the task force to trace those that might have had to contact with them. Yakubu’s hospital has been shut down indefinitely while sensitive areas of Daura are being fumigated to check the spread of the disease. The state government, he added, is looking at the possibility of providing palliatives for the people of Daura, but that the plan was still at its embryonic stage. Sirika disclosed that the senator representing the area, Ahmed Kaita, had sent food and related materials to cushion the effect of the lockdown in the area. He, however, called on wealthy individuals in the state to emulate the lawmaker’s gesture, as some of the people were in dire need of assistance. He warned that the state government would use the carrot-stick approach for residents who harbour or fail to report to health authorities, anyone with symptoms of the disease. He said though measures have been put in place to ensure the disease does not spread, the government had however made provision to expand isolation centres to accommodate unseen eventualities. He said the committee had gone to the six international and 15 local borders of the state, to monitor activities as well as sensitise people on the importance of using sanitizers, and social spacing. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .