 Promoters of FC Barcelona Academy, Lagos, and FC Bulmaro, has reiterated the need for every Nigerian to align with government’s directives. Photo: SKYNEWS  At the weekend, chairman of the Blaugrana Sports Group International, Leslie Oghomienor, met with the technical crew of the FC Bulmaro and other key officers of the organization to pave the way for aligning with the sports associations and government’s directives on COVID-19. Speaking after the meeting, Oghomienor said the happenings around the world, which affect all global and local sports activities and programmes, are very strong voices in the call to action. He commended Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his team, President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal government for their smart response to the pandemic while appealing for Nigerians’ support in every way possible to safe the society from the scourge. Oghomienor, who marked his birthday recently, said he was overwhelmed by the love exhibited by his colleagues on the occasion. He also used the opportunity to pray for more strength and success for all individuals and corporate organizations that have contributed to ensuring that the world was better and healthier for the good of us all. “This, indeed, is a very great surprise to me and indirectly an inspiration and motivation to work more smartly. And in every human responsibility, to win for the good of all, you must be genuinely humane, strategic and tactical. “Honestly, Blaugrana as a team, together we are bound to do more in our own little ways to help build a better Nigeria and a friendlier world,” he said. Also speaking at the event, FC Bulmaro Head Coach, Gonzalo Dibiasi, who spoke on behalf of the team, described Oghomienor as more than a chairman to all, adding, “he is a father and a confidant of a friend to us all from Nigeria, India, Spain and Argentina… no race, no colour. “I have worked in many parts of the world as a coach, but I have not seen a good and very committed man like him. He is a humane person. He is a devotee to his vision of helping others live their purpose. He is a very good father to all of us, no discrimination. He deserves our encouragement, loyalty and full support.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .