Some of the food items presented by Olorogun Oskar Ibru to Delta Communities…yesterday. Head of Michael Ibru Dynasty, Olorogun Oskar Ibru, yesterday embarked on a door-to-door distribution of food items worth millions of naira to the vulnerable in Agbarha-Otor, Ogor, Ovwor-Olomu, Effurun-Otor, Owvewve and Emeragha communities in Ughelli North and South councils of Delta State. The gesture was to cushion the biting effect of the lockdown order by the state government, to contain the spread of the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. Head of Ovwor Farms, member of the Ibru Organisations, Joe Oluku, who led the distribution team, ensured that the rice, beans, tomato paste, salt, vegetable oil, matches, onions among other items were distributed equitably to the poor, widows and the elderly. The distribution team also took the palliatives to the palaces of the Ovie of Agbarha-Otor Kingdom, HRM Richard Okorefe l; Ovie of Ughelli Kingdom, HRM Wilson Oharisi III; the Ovie of Ogor Kingdom, HRM Okiemute Igere 1; the Owhorode of Olomu Kingdom, HRM Ogbon Oghoro I; and the Ovie of Effurun-Otor Kingdom, HRM Johnson Duku. Oluku, who spoke with journalists at Ovwor after the door-to-door distribution of the items, said the gesture was borne out of Oscar Ibru’s desire to reach the people during this period that the pandemic restricted people from earning a living. “As a man passionate about helping people out of needs, he has, as usual, come out to reach out to the people. This has been his way of life that we are grateful to God for giving us such a man of benevolence,” he added. The Owhorode expressed appreciation to Olorogun Ibru for his benevolence, saying, “He has always shown commitment to the wellbeing of the less-privileged in the society.” On his part, Duku thanked Ibru for the kind gesture. “I am not surprised because I know him and he is one of the pillars of the Urhobo nation as at today. This pandemic requires gestures of this nature from our sons that are properly endowed and Olorogun Oskar Ibru is one of our sons that are well endowed. So, I am not surprised that it is coming from him.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .