The Presidential Taskforce on coronavirus (PTFCOVID-19) is not in charge of the private sector donations to help Nigeria tackle the global pandemic, presidential aide on digital media Tolu Ogunlesi said. The taskforce inaugurated in March is in charge of the monitoring of developments around the world on the outbreak of coronavirus. Since the rising cases in Nigeria, members of the private sector and individual have donated funds to support the fight against the disease. However, some Nigerians believed that the funds could be diverted into private pockets in the absence of accountability. But Ogunlesi disclosed that the account for the relief fund is domiciled at the Central Bank of Nigeria and not with PTFCOVID-19. “Coordinator of #PTFCOVID19 (secretary to the government of the Federation Boss Mustapha) today explained that none of the monies donated by Private Sector are coming to the Task Force,” Ogunlesi tweeted. “Donations are being made to the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 #CACOVID Relief Fund, domiciled at CBN. No Kobo coming to the Task Force.” The CBN on Wednesday said monetary contributions to the account set up under the Private Sector Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) stood at about N15 billion. CBN spokesperson Isaac Okorafor said the 37 donors include individuals, banks and other corporate organisations. Details of the contributions showed that the CBN and Aliko Dangote Foundation contributed N2 billion each, while Abdul Samad Rabiu (BUA Sugar Refinery), Segun Agbaje (GTB), Tony Elumelu (UBA), Oba Otudeko (First Bank), Jim Ovia (Zenith Bank), Herbert Wigwe (Access Bank) and Femi Otedola of Amperion Power Distribution donated N1 billion each to the relief fund. Other donors include Pacific Holding Ltd, Union Bank Plc, Sterling Bank Plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Stanbic IBTC, Citi Bank Nigeria Ltd, FCMB, Fidelity Bank, ECOBank, African Steel Mills and Multichoice Nigeria Limited. Mr Okorafor listed others as FSDH Merchant Bank, FBN Merchant Bank, Rand Merchant Bank, Coronation Merchant Bank, Sun Trust Bank, Providus Bank, Wema Bank, Unity Bank, Heritage Bank, Nova Merchant Bank, Polaris Bank, and Keystone Bank. The list also includes Globus Bank, Titan Trust Bank, Takagro Chemicals Ltd, Ahmadu Mahmoud and Handy Capital Ltd. He, however, urged more Nigerians and corporate bodies to key into the coalition with a view to supporting the fight against the pandemic. “Nigeria can overcome the coronavirus pandemic scourge with all hands on deck,” the CBN spokesman said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .