Nigerian singer Brymo claims to be better than Nigerian singers Wizkid, Burna Boy and Davido. The 33-year-old singer made the claim amid heated exchanges with Nigerian social media users who berate the singer for some of his spirited statements on the platform. In one of his tweets, Brymo responded with “Who are those?” after a twitter user stated that none of the singer’s music in the last 5 years would make as much wave as Burna Boy’s “African Giant” album, Wizkid’s “SoundmanEp” and Davido’s singles “Blow My Mind” and “Risky”. In a subsequent tweet, Brymo tweeted that Nigerians rate people that sample music and copy legacy.  And in another, the “Ara” singer stated that the reason he is not decorated is that he refused to play and in some instance pay – if Nigerians are to judge by the awards or accolades achieved by other artists. “I’m their daddy though !…. and if you are judging all these by awards, local or foreign, I’ll have you know that I refused to play, or even pay cash in some instances is why I’m not decorated.. so you ppl should shut it!!..” He reinforced this claim in another tweet: “Those who don’t play in a certain league don’t get decorated there… one concert a year in Lagos and you are artiste of the year.. crap!!” The twitter exchanges started after Brymo reacted to a Twitter user who stated that the singer’s recently released album “Yellow” is good but it is not great and wouldn’t make even the singer’s top 3 albums. “Brymo makes lovely music. He is one of the best out there in this country, but Yellow won’t even crack his own Top 3. Good album, not great.” To this Brymo replied: “F***ing liar… !! Yellow is my best work so far.. out-streamed all of my catalogue in two weeks…” Another user @YomYom_ also called out Brymo for boasting that “Yellow” out-streamed all his previous works as he had previously tweeted that “Number Do Lie” and alluded that other artistes in the industry were insincere about the numbers of their stream.. “Lol The way Artistes swear it’s not by ‘Numbers’ till they Legit start doing Huge Numbers then they start using it as a Yardstick as well is just. See Brymo o.. dey use ‘Numbers’ judge ‘Best’ work” Brymo responded that he only judged himself by his previous successes. He went on to state that it is “silly” how people rate artistes based on awards, collaboration and streams on platforms that aren’t African: “It’s silly how you all rate streams by platforms that aren’t present in Africa, rate acts by collaborations and awards that are not African…. affiliating with ppl who banned you from entering their country…” <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>