 Security personnel enforcing COVID-19 lockdown along the Outer Northern Expressway at Kubwa-Katampe axis in Abuja…yesterday.           PHOTO: NAN  The Chairman, Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), Lagos State chapter, Obideyi Olabanji Benedict, while commending state and federal governments’ efforts at containing the spread of Coronavirus (COVID-19) in Nigeria, however, stressed that locking down the country without testing people makes the approach a “waste of time.”
   
He stated: “Lagos State is highly appreciated for what they have done, their response have been swift and massive. But if you are locking down and you are not doing any test, you are just wasting our time. “Our aspiration is that government should make this testing available to every household, so that we can trace positive cases and ensure that they are taken to the isolation centres, where treatment would be given.” Speaking when members of the ACPN donated alcohol-based sanitisers, Vitamin C, gloves and other items to the 27 councils of the state at its contribution to strengthen efforts in the fight against the virus, Benedict stressed that constant use of sanitisers, Vitamin C and gloves is crucial in the fight against Coronavirus at community level across Nigeria.
 
He said: “There are lots of fake sanitisers out there. Vitamin C boosts immunity against any form of disease and consuming it prevents people from contracting the virus or any form of diseases, while gloves prevents contracting the virus from surfaces.”
 
Benedict contended that while hospitals are closing down due to the infection, the burden would be massive on the community pharmacists, who he said are the last defence line in health care, urging the government to provide Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to protect pharmacists, doctors, nurses and other health workers from contracting the virus. Receiving the materials, Chairmen of Ifako-Ijaiye and Apapa Councils, Dr. Oloruntoba Oke and Mr. Elijah Owolabi Adele, who was represented by the Secretary of the Council, Olalekan Bakare, respectively, commended the association for contributing to the containment of the virus at the community level, calling for more partnership from associations and organisations to win the fight.
 
They also said the donation would go a long way to prevent further spread of the virus, as it would be distributed to the wards and residents.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .