• Orders release of impounded vehicles
• Says lawless residents to be dealt with
• State discharges nine more Coronavirus patients
• Gov’s wife, Olumakaiye hopeful of end to COVID-19 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has promised to give cash support to the very poor in the state. Sanwo-Olu, who stated this while giving an update on the state’s efforts aimed at containing Coronavirus, said that raw food would be delivered to churches, mosques and market leaders for onward delivery to the masses, promising that the state government would continue to work in the interest of the citizens. He further stated that all the vehicles impounded from March 1, 2020, would be released freely to their owners, but warned that the state government would not tolerate disobedience to orders around the lockdown and that lawless residents would be dealt with by security agencies. Sanwo-Olu said: “We are discharging nine patients – three females and six males, who have tested negative in two consecutive test readings. They are now free to be reunited with their families. This will now bring the total number of discharged cases to 70. “Besides, we are boosting the capacity of our isolation centres to take up more patients. Overall, across all our isolation centres in Yaba, Onikan and LUTH, we have the capacity to admit 275 patients.  By next week, when we open the isolation centres at Landmark and Gbagada General Hospital, we will have the capacity for an additional 220 beds, including 20 intensive care units.” Meanwhile, President, Women’s/Girls Organisation, Lagos Anglican Diocese, Prof. (Mrs.) Motunrayo Olumakaiye has expressed optimism that God will heal our land and that Nigeria will prevail over the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Olumakaiye gave the assurance yesterday at the Lagos State Government House where she was received by the wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu during the donation of cleaning/sanitary/personal hygiene materials to frontline workers in Lagos State on behalf of the Business and Professional Women’s Fellowship of Women’s Organisation of Lagos Anglican Diocese. In her response, Dr. Sanwo-Olu, who also believed that end of COVID-19 is imminent, said that she had been observing the partnership of the Diocese with the Lagos State government in reaching out to the poor through giving out of food items and other essential materials including the donation of cash at this trial period that COVID-19 has added to the travail of the citizenry. She prayed that God would bless the diocese and would not overlook it labour of love. The governor’s wife, therefore, challenged well-meaning Nigerians to help the less privileged at this period of great challenge occasioned by the pandemic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .