Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun yesterday urged residents and citizens of the state to put their hope in God in the face of the Coronavirus pandemic ravaging the world. Abiodun, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Kunle Somorin, to felicitate with Christians on Easter, urged the people of the state to play their roles as true citizens through love and sacrifice for the general good of the society. The governor said that it was only through love and sacrifice toward the good of the society that the people could uphold the legacy of Jesus Christ, which is encapsulated in His selfless love and sacrifice on behalf of humanity. “The greatest legacy that Jesus Christ left for us is the legacy of love and sacrifice. I believe the best way we can carry on that legacy is to fulfill our obligations to our society,” he said. Abiodun urged all Nigerians to reflect on the measures put in place by governments, both at the federal and state levels, to contain the spread of the pandemic by avoiding high-density gatherings and maintaining social distance as prescribed by medical professionals. Easter, the governor further noted, “is a period when we engage in sober recollection of the ultimate and selfless sacrifice of love that Jesus Christ made on our behalf,” adding that society requires more expression of love to improve the quality of life of the people. He, therefore, stressed that the period calls for deep reflection on what the people’s roles and obligations should be to make the world a better place for posterity, saying: “We require abundance of love and sacrifice to maintain the harmonious and peaceful co-existence among the various people in our state for which we have come to be known.” He also urged all stakeholders to co-operate with health-givers and the laity to seek spiritual intervention, as the blood shed on the Cross of Calvary is enough atonement for mankind’s illnesses. The governor thanked the people for their show of solidarity at this critical period and for their individual and collective sacrifices to see an end to the global pandemic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .