Traders in some parts of Kaduna on Saturday defied the state government’s lockdown order to make brisk sales at black markets located within neighborhoods just as residents rush to buy food items ahead of the Easter festivity, News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports. It would be recalled that the Kaduna State Government had placed total restriction of movement from Friday, April 3, with exception of Tuesday and Wednesday weekly. A visit by NAN to Television Market at Unguwan Yelwa and Sabo areas showed brisk business activities involving sellers and buyers of items like fish, beef, perishables and other food items. Mrs Grace Ezekiel, a pretty trader who sells perishables, told NAN that although she was aware of the restriction order, she needed to the sale of the perishable items to avoid incurring losses. She also said that most of the sellers were at the market following high demand from residents of the area. “The situation is not palatable for everyone, including petty traders who depend on the little gains they make to cater for their families,” she said. Also, Mrs Grace Andy who sells vegetables such as cabbages, tomatoes, pepper, carrots, green beans and pears at Sabo Market, said she came to the market because she knew her wares would be on-demand. “It is out of our concern for the people who need food to survive that we risked coming out today. “If the government said the market can only operate Tuesdays and Wednesdays, so what happens to weekends?” she wandered. Mr Gabriel Peter, a parent, said he was at the black market in Sabo to buy a few food items not necessarily because of the Easter festivity but to meet his family needs by providing food at home. “As you can see, even members of the Vigilante can be seen making purchases and that’s to show hunger has eaten deep, irrespective of your profession,” he said. Also, Mrs Sarah Musa of Sabo area told NAN that the turnout was much as there were fears of strict enforcement of the restriction of movement order on Saturday, as such, the people took advantage of the laxity of the enforcement in their neighbourhoods to make purchases.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .