Samoa – Wanderlust Travel Magazine This travel article was inspired after seeing breathtaking sceneries of the island of Samoa in the 2019 American action film “Fast & Furious: Hobbs & Shaw”. Samoa, officially known as the Independent State of Samoa is a country in the middle of the vast South Pacific Ocean consisting of two main islands, Savai’i and Upolu, and four smaller islands (Manono, Apolima, Fanuatapu, and Namua). Here are five reasons why you should visit Samoa: Swim In The To Sua Ocean Trench
To-Sua Ocean Trench is probably the most Instagrammed site in Samoa. To-Sua literally means “giant swimming hole”. The trench is 30 meters deep and accessible via a long ladder to the crystalline saltwater pool.
The trench is located inside lovely native gardens in the village of Lotofaga on Upolo (Samoa’s most populated island). Get A Samoan Tattoo
The Samoan tattoo, or ‘tatau’ as it is known traditionally, is deeply tied into the culture of Samoa. It is done as a source of pride in their heritage and culture.
Samoans have two gender-specific and culturally significant tattoos. For males, it is called the ‘Pe’a’ and consists of intricate and geometrical patterns tattooed that cover areas from the knees up towards the ribs. A Samoan girl is given a ‘malu’, which covers the area from just below her knees to her upper thighs. Food
Food is an extremely important part of the local culture in Samoa. The island is blessed with a stable tropical climate, fresh organic food. Samoan food is not heavily spiced and is characterized by the use of coconut milk and cream. Staple foods are taro, breadfruit, bananas, coconut, fish and shellfish, chicken and pork. Samoan Umu, a traditional above the ground stone oven heated by glowing hot lava rocks is used to cook food. The food can be placed directly on the rocks, wrapped in banana leaves or plaited in coconut fronds for cooking. The Beach
Samoa offers some of the most pristine beaches in the world. The two major regions of Upolu and Savai’i are home to a selection of unspoilt beautiful beaches. Many of Samoa’s beaches boast a beachfront resort while others are home to a traditional fale (typically owned by the nearest fishing village). The Lalomanu Beach is a narrow stretch of powder-white sand and it’s considered to be one of the best beaches in the South Pacific. Other beaches worth visiting are Lefaga Beach, Tafa Tafa Beach, Aganoa Beach, Manese Beach The Culture
The Samoan culture is centred around the principle of vāfealoa’i, the relationships between people. These relationships are based on respect or fa’aaloalo.
Samoans love to sing and dance – you’re likely to see fire dancers perform seriously mind-boggling tricks.
And just in case you come across men in skirts, it is called lavalava. The lavalava is an article of daily clothing traditionally worn by Polynesians and other Oceanic peoples It is worn by men and women in uses from school uniforms to business attire with a suit jacket and tie.