The award-winning afro-pop band, Sauti Sol announced today that their fifth studio album, Midnight Train, will be released on the 5th of June, 2020. This is the group’s first major-label record with Universal Music Africa. The album pre-add goes live today! The pre-add allows fans to instantly get the tracks, “Brighter Days” as well as previous singles “Suzanna” and “Disco Matanga,” added to their libraries and playlists immediately. Additionally, this feature will automatically add the album to the consumer’s library immediately on release day, 5 June. “Brighter Days” is a motivational and spiritually uplifting anthem featuring Grammy Award-winning Soweto Gospel Choir.  Recorded between Los Angeles, California, Johannesburg, South Africa and their hometown Nairobi, Kenya, Midnight Train demonstrates the bands songwriting and producing skills with electric energy and new rhythms. The album’s theme is centered around enjoying the journey of life but also embracing the hustles and the trials that come with it. Special and notable features on the album include American singer and songwriter, India Arie on sensual track “My Everything,” and Burna Boy guest appears on “Time Flies.” When reflecting, Bien explains that “Time flies is inspired by Burna Boy’s increased journey. A lot can happen in a year with dedication.” “Disco Matanga (Yambakhana),” the official soundtrack to Netflix’s first African original series Queen Sono, is the most recent collaborative release to come in the form of Sho Madjozi and Black Motion. Speaking about the album, Polycarp said: Midnight Train is a wholesome album and a milestone release for the group. It is inspirational and uplifting and offers much needed social commentary while not losing its global appeal. There is a lot of maturity in the album. We have come of age and we express how people should perceive us freely after 11 years as professional singers. Every song speaks to an issue that is relatable to everyone. Mid-night train can be Pre-saved here Sauti Sol is a Kenyan afro-pop band formed in Nairobi, Kenya by vocalists Bien-Aimé Baraza, Willis Chimano and Savara Mudigi in 2005. Initially, an acapella group, guitarist Polycarp Otieno joined before they named themselves Sauti. The band has had several successful tours in Africa and Europe. They topped Kenyan charts and gained international attention with shows in Europe and the US, as well as television appearances and various accolades and nominations. The band has also received both local and international accolades and nominations, including at the Kisima Music Awards, the Channel O Music Video Awards, the MTV Europe Music Awards, and the BET Awards.