The President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Eddie Efekoha has called for joint effort by industry stakeholders to support the fight against the global pandemic, COVID-19. In a message to insurance industry stakeholders, the President declared that the fallout from the current pandemic has called for citizens of the country to be responsible for their wellbeing as well as the safety of other citizens. Efekoha urged the public to observe all the guidelines and laws laid down by the relevant agencies including WHO, The Federal Ministry of Health, NCDC and State Government instruments. The President also extended his gratitude to the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) for its health cover initiative which guarantees a N1 million free life insurance cover for each health personnel and allied professional attending to COVID-19 case. He stated that this scourge required a committed a joint effort by all stakeholders in the Insurance industry and beyond in order to combine resources and expertise for the ultimate victory. Efekoha also commended the regulator NAICOM for its palliatives to the industry and Insurance companies who have commenced sensitization campaigns and equally pledged to contribute to a common kitty under the care of the NIA to procure testing kits and protective for medical personnel. He opined that in the fight against COVID 19, the extra motivation for the frontline workers would come from tangible support from stakeholders to ensure efficient working tools are provided in order to ensure the protection of all lives as well as good welfare packages during this period. He equally commended the efforts and dedication of the Federal Government, Federal Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Lagos State Government and all other State Governments in combating the virus which has crippled the world economy. Similarly, the Director-General of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, Richard Borokini lent his voice to the crusade by urging citizens of the country to observe the hygiene, isolation and quarantine procedures communicated by the agencies at the forefront in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Borokini showered encomiums on all healthcare professionals in the heat of the battle and prayed that their efforts will not go in vain. He also lauded the NIA and Insurance companies for rising up to the challenge and contributing their bit to ensure that the Insurance industry can be reckoned with during this time. He expressed optimism that with all hands-on deck and in cooperation, the nation would emerge victorious in this battle against an enemy which has already caused extensive damage to lives and to economies all over the world. While acknowledging the impact of events on the Institute’s calendar, he assured members that new dates for all the events affected by the Corona Virus pandemic will be communicated to members as soon as normalcy is returned. Borokini urged all members to stay safe and make use of the enforced break to improve on themselves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .