Small chops. | Photo: 1229foods A career in culinary is not like any other, it is rewarding and challenging and also allows you to utilize an artistic flair. If you must succeed in an ever-growing and ever-changing industry then here are a few things you must embrace on your journey to success. Curiosity, not just passion will give you depth and take you places you never imagined.
An unknown writer once said, “Curiosity is the spark behind the spark of every great idea. The future belongs to the curious.” I stumbled on this quote weeks ago and realised that curiosity has always been a great starting point to any great endeavour and so it does not make it different from the culinary world.
If you could just let your curiosity and your hard work fuel you, you might get somewhere that feels like genuine passion. But in order to hang in there long enough to develop real mastery, you need to discover a gritty and persistent outlook to the culinary world. Thomas Keller says that your desire is what keeps you going when your passion fades. Curiosity, Interest, Persistence, Engagement and Hard work would lead to mastery and satisfaction and this is the first step to succeeding in the business of food irrespective of whatever area you have chosen to specialize in. Specialise or Die ( It’s the best way to go)
Everyone has one or more unique qualities which reveal your specialization. Choosing what to specialise in optional but strongly recommended. So many options are available to you in the culinary industry such that specialising in something is nearly impossible. Choosing a specialisation can be as easy as figuring out the type of food you want to work with: Italian? Thai? African? Or what areas in the industry you want to work in as say a Chef Instructor? Private Chef? Food Stylist? Food Photography or Head Chef in a prestigious restaurant? You Read, You Lead: Make time to read
To truly be successful in this industry, you need to know what’s going on in it at all times. You need to be aware of new trends and know whether they’re thriving or failing horribly.
How are you supposed to learn about trends in your industry? Read! Read newspapers, magazines, journals, blogs. Don’t get it wrong —you don’t need to spend hours researching for food every weekend. Although that much reading certainly couldn’t hurt, we’re merely suggesting that when you have a few minutes, check out the food section of your local newspaper, navigate to a credible food blog, or pick up a magazine. The more you read, the more you’ll know about the business — and the better (and easier) your decisions will be in the future. This is very essential to succeed in this field. Open Yourself Up to New Ideas and Possibilities
As new techniques, equipment, and ingredients become more popular in the culinary industry, you may need to upgrade your equipment or replace an old dish on your menu. Think carefully about which new products or technology in the market may help you and what your competition is doing with new ingredients. Also, choose items that are not only right for you and your business but that also help you remain a strong competitor. Broaden Your Horizons
You may come across some great opportunities if you choose to specialize in a particular area of the culinary industry. But you may find even better jobs if you keep your eyes and ears open to learning earn new skills. The more you can do, the more marketable you are to future employers or clients.
You have to be okay with always learning and growing, which sounds super easy in theory, but also requires that you set your ego aside and admit there are things you don’t know.
Not just admit it, but relish the chances to be a newbie again, to upend the hierarchy and learn from anyone. Most importantly, don’t lose sight of the big picture – doing your best work, and helping others do the same. 