PHOTO: BLOOMBERG • Plans teleconference on availability of raw materials in Nigeria
The Federal Government is collaborating with stakeholders to harness ethanol potential for mass production of sanitizers to contain the spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) in the country. Government said such collaboration will guarantee availability of other raw materials for quick and mass production of sanitizers that have presently become a daily necessity for the fight against the virus. The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, disclosed this yesterday, at the weekly engagement with the Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) of the Committee on Sustainable Production/Delivery of Essential Commodities During COVID-19, in Abuja. Adebayo also revealed that the Ministry has concluded arrangements for a teleconference with producers of sanitizers in the country to find easy ways of getting ethanol, making the by-products available and cheap for easy access for Nigerians. The Minister also emphasized the need to observe Market Protocol by wearing face masks and making use of hand sanitizers on approved market days for easy access to transactions. He said: “I need to stress that, while there is an undeniable need for markets to be open on some days for people to restock on household supplies, it is most important for the set protocol during the process to be complied with to the latter, the use of face masks and had sanitizers on market days are non-negotiable to limit the spread of the virus until the scourge blows over.” Adebayo also used the forum to call on security operatives to allow farmers have access to their farms including the use of fertilizers as well as crops harvesting to ensure food sufficiency throughout the duration of the COVID-19 and beyond adding that the farmers must wear their face masks as well as observe other preventive measures before they are let through. “This synergy between our law enforcement agencies, our essential goods manufacturers and the producers as well as with the Ministry has allowed us to be able to meet critical demands at this time. I wish to also add that, while on duty, our law enforcement agencies must do well to allow farmers access their farms for necessary farm activities like fertilizing and harvest in order to ensure food sufficiency during COVID-19 and beyond, the farmers must however, wear their face masks as well as observe other preventive measures before they are let through,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .