• Provides Two New Testing Laboratories To Checkmate Pandemic The Nigerian Armed Forces, yesterday, said it would provide the minimum necessary force to support the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and other security agencies to checkmate the activities of criminals taking advantage of patriotic and loyal citizens observing the lockdown directive. Coordinator of Defence Media Operations, Maj-Gen. John Enenche, who disclosed this while briefing journalists yesterday in Abuja, said the Nigerian Armed Forces have provided two military laboratories- the Defence Reference Laboratory in Abuja and Nigerian Air Force Reference Laboratory in Lagos- to carry out Coronavirus test. He said further to this, the 80 trained medical personnel are already deployed at our formations for engagement, while Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have been provided, warning all criminally-minded individuals to desist from disturbing the peace of other citizens. He assured that the criminals would be tackled appropriately in line with the principles of internal security operations and rules of engagement to ensure the security of lives and property of peace-loving Nigerians. According to him: “The general public is requested to provide credible information to law enforcement agents on criminal activities in their neighbourhood to enable them nip their plans in the bud. “Furthermore, there should be no panic if the increased military presence is noticed in the public domain. “Finally, the high command of the Nigerian military hereby assures the citizens that the Armed Forces is resolute and committed to the security of lives and property of the populace; hence the high command encourages the public to strive to abide by the guidelines provided by the government on preventive measures against contracting the virus, key among which is the instruction on lockdown given by the federal and various state governments. “This will ensure that appropriate actions are taken by the relevant agencies to identify and manage cases promptly to prevent community transmission. Therefore, the Nigerian military reiterates that the essence of this measure is for the good of all Nigerians and other nationals residing in the country. “Thus, all are kindly requested to cooperate with the security agencies to ensure that the lockdown is effective.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .