• Borno fumigates banks’ premises, ATM galleries
• Uba Sani urges Nigerians not to give up on govt Kwara State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Raji Rasak, has said that the two confirmed cases of COVID-19 presently at Sobi Isolation Centre, Ilorin, are not symptomatic. However, the state’s COVID-19 team headed by the deputy governor, Mr. Kayode Alabi, is expecting the results of their confirmatory tests. Giving the news to the people who are under complete lockdown, Rasak said preliminary investigations into the sudden death yesterday of a man at Oke Andi area of Ilorin did not suggest death from COVID-19. The man reportedly slumped and died on the spot. The commissioner told reporters in Ilorin, “The two cases are eating well and have no single symptom of the COVID-19. In fact, we are expecting the results of the follow-up tests on them any moment from now.” He added that results of 12 of the 16 samples taken of all the persons believed to have had close contact with the confirmed cases came out negative. In the same vein, Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, urged the people to be united in eradicating the virus from the state. In another vein, the Borno State Environmental Protection Agency (BOSEPA) has been directed to fumigate all banks’ premises in Maiduguri metropolis, including banking halls their Automated Teller Machine (ATM) galleries to prevent the spread of the virus during banking hours. Chairman of Borno State COVID-19 response team, Alhaji Umar
Kadafur, stated on Friday in Maiduguri that the directive was part of ongoing precautionary measures against COVID-19 in the state. “This preventative fumigation exercise is to be carried out twice a week by the environmental agency,” he said.He, therefore, urged the banks to give the agency the needed support and cooperation to carry out the exercises. Meanwhile, Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central), has called on Christians celebrating Easter to pray harder at home for Nigeria against COVID-19. The senator told all Christians and Nigerians not to give up on government at all levels in this critical period. “Even as the COVID-19 pandemic has created economic crisis in Nigeria and governments at all levels are implementing tough measures to battle the invisible enemy, and as painful as the measures may be, they are necessary for our survival. Nigerians must not despair,” he said. Sani also called on Christians to pray for health workers who left their families at home to combat the deadly disease.  He called on Kaduna residents to support the state government in its effort to checkmate the pandemic.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .