The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) has warned both the federal and state governments against arbitrary extension of the lockdown in some states ordered as a measure to control the spread of COVID-19. In a statement yesterday, CACOL Executive Chairman, Mr. Debo Adeniran, noted that though it was too early to calculate and conclude on both mortality and economic losses of the global scourge since the first announcement of the lockdown of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Lagos and Ogun states about a month ago, the social and survival implications were already too weighty and taking tolls on ordinary Nigerians. He said: “We would recollect that certain conditions that border on the overall health premium of majority of Nigerians necessitated the lockdown in those places as the coronavirus pandemic not only had their index cases recorded there, but the rate kept on rising with residents noticeably going about their businesses and preoccupations as though things were just normal and tolerable. “Sadly, the figure of the afflicted and deaths recorded was on the upward mobility as well. This made all stakeholders, including medical experts and the World Health Organisation (WHO), to issue serious warning about a looming catastrophe on the horizon in Nigeria and other global theatres of human existence. It was therefore in response to all these warning signs that the states and federal governments independently declared initial one week and two weeks lockdown. “Ironically, the unfortunate trajectory of the afflicted and dead has continued to be on the rise with what was initially less than 50 confirmed cases now rising to an almost 900 afflicted, and over 100 deaths recorded, though with an almost 300 survivals of the virus,” he said.
 
Adeniran added that since some of the index states were already contemplating compulsory wearing of facemasks, among other precautions once the last two weeks imposed expires next week, there should not be any blanket extension without practical and verifiable provision of food and other survival modes to Nigerians. 
   
The group also called for strategic and holistic appraisal of the situation economically, saying the country should liaise with other nations to be able to devise means of managing and overcoming the pandemic in a way that preserves the overall wellbeing of Nigerians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .