 Babajide Sanwo-Olu  Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday said that nine more COVID-19 patients; five females and four males, including one foreign national, a polish, have been discharged to join the society. The governor said the patients, five from the Mainland Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba and four from Onikan Isolation Centre, were discharged having fully recovered and tested negative twice consecutively to COVID-19. Sanwo-olu said with this, the number of patients successfully managed and discharged from Lagos State facilities was now 107. “As our frontline health workers record successes in the battle against COVID-19, we urge citizens to stay at home, practise social distancing and adopt highest possible personal and hand washing hygiene. This is the only way we can break the chain of transmission of the infection.” The governor thanked Lagos residents for their continued perseverance and patience. Meanwhile, the Osun State government has said that it owes it a bounty duty to protect and safeguide the well-being and security of citizens in the state, particularly by taking measures to prevent community spread of COVID-19. It, therefore, appealed to residents to ensure compliance with directives aimed at ensuring that the pandemic does not spread among the populace.As part of steps to ensure total compliance with its lockdown directive imposed to curb spread of COVID-19, the government has mounted barricades at all boundaries leading into the state and on major roads within the state. This follows the announcement that the 14-day lockdown in the state was not a curfew but a total lockdown with no affordance of human and vehicular movements.The state’s Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs. Funke Egbemode, while fielding questions from journalists yesterday, said the barricades were erected to throttle back unauthorised movements across the state. She said that the government was intensifying efforts to flatten the curve of COVID-19 in the state and avoid a resurgence of the disease. “The government is determined to protect Osun and its citizens. Hence, this move by the government is to keep defiant people from hurting themselves and endangering others. “The barricades will only be opened to essential duty vehicles conveying materials needed for the fight against COVID-19.    Non-essential travels and movements remain banned in the state till further notice,” she added. Also, the state’s Commissioner for Local Governments and Chieftaincy Affairs, Adeleke Adebayo, who doubles as a member of the state COVID-19 task force, said that the government installed physical barricades at its boundaries to ensure safety of its citizens, adding that the action was to prevent human and vehicular movements from neighbouring states with increasing number of COVID-19 cases. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .