Victor Osimhen is now the beautiful bride coveted by many top European clubs. PHOTO: GETTYIMAGES Former International, Friday Elaho, has counselled Super Eagles’ current rave of the moment, Victor Osimhen, to avoid making the error of other Nigerian players by taking his time and not rush to put pen on paper to sign for any clubs, as some big teams in Europe are all over him to re-strategise for next European season. Leicester, Arsenal, Juventus, Inter Milan and Liverpool among others are reportedly showing interest to sign the FIFA Under 17 World Cup Golden Boot winner. But Liverpool seems to have gone a step further by opening talks with the youngster, who plays for the French club, Lille. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Elaho said that the reason Osimhen was attracting many suitors from top clubs in Europe was because of his top-notch performance for his club in the current season and in the Champions League. “Suddenly everyone now wants Osimhen because of his performance in the current league before it was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Assuming he did not perform well for his club I do not think any club will come for him and that makes him good enough to feature for such big teams in Europe. “If a player is not doing well I don’t think such clubs will come looking for him. Definitely, these big teams will always want to have such a player that will add quality and contribute to their success,” he said, adding that Osimhen should take his time and look for a club that he will have a good prospect of playing regularly. “Osimhen should just keep his head cool and know where he is going. He shouldn’t just rush to any club, but rather he should settle down and think of a good club where he can play regularly and not where he would be benched. “He shouldn’t think about money now because money will come once he starts playing regularly and remain focused. I hope he has a good manager that will advise him well on the right decision to take so that he won’t regret like what happened to others in the past,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .