• SAN asks Sanwo-Olu to grant Nollywood actress satae pardon Controversial musician, Afeez Fashola, popularly known as Naira Marley, has agreed to shoot a video campaigning against the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in collaboration with the Lagos State government. This was disclosed in an Arpil 9 letter to the Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos, nothing that he would make the video at no cost to the state. According to the musician, the video will be in satisfaction of part of the conditions for the state to withdraw a social distancing charge against him. “I hereby undertake to join the Lagos State campaign against the spread of COVID-19 by making a free audio-visual publication towards the campaign against COVID-19,” Marley told Chief Magistrate Yewande Aje-Afunwa in the letter. Aje-Afunwa approved the withdrawal of the charge against the musician. She also approved the withdrawal of the charge against Marley’s co-defendants, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Babatunde Gbadamosi and his wife, Folashade. The trio were charged to court on a four-count charge bordering on attending a crowded birthday party last weekend, hosted by Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele-Bello and her husband. However, on their scheduled arraignment before the State Magistrates’ Court, Ogba on Wednesday, the state government made a U-turn and offered to withdraw the charges if they could meet following conditions: “To write a formal apology to the Government of Lagos State which will solidify the remorsefulness shown by them; to give an undertaking in writing that they will continue to comply with the directives of Mr President and Mr Governor; and to agree to go on 14 days isolation to protect other members of the public from any likely danger.” Meanwhile, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, has appealed to the governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwoolu, to grant state pardon to Funke Akindele-Bello. While speaking with journalists in court at Ogba after the proceedings that terminated the charges brought against the Gbadamosis and Naira Marley, the human rights activist stated that since the state made the case in court yesterday that it was not out to persecute citizens, Akindele should be granted reprieve, moreso that she has demonstrated remorse for her conduct. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .