Lori Cheek We may need to reevaluate the lyrics of the legendary Fela Anikulapo Kuti’s song “Water No Get Enemy” as it appears there are some people in the world who don’t like water. Lori Cheek, a New York woman is one of such people who doesn’t like drinking water. Her dislike for drinking plain water is so profound that she has ended up in the emergency room several times with severe dehydration because she simply refused to put water in her mouth. Although Cheeks understands that she needs water to survive, she would rather face the risks of not drinking enough water. This has seen her experience severe dehydration more than once, but she would still rather not drink anything at all than have a sip of water. In her day to day life, Cheek relies on hydration tablets, Crystal Light and other flavored drinks to stay hydrated, but she won’t touch water. “Even if there are absolutely no other options, I usually just opt to not drink anything,” Cheek told Mel Magazine. The self-described water hater has been rushed to the ER three times, after fainting at the gym, suffering a panic attack, and after experiencing extreme exhaustion during a minor cold, all of which were associated with dehydration. Still, she says she knows the risks, but won’t change her drinking habits. A “water hater” is a person who hates both the taste of water and the “slimy” sensation of it going down his/her throat. “People are often yelling at me about not drinking water, and I finally just agree with them so they’ll stop being upset with me,” the New York woman told 60 Second Docs. Lori says she is addicted to fitness, working out every single day “no matter what”, but while most of her gym buddies stay hydrated with water, she will bring a cup of coffee to her workouts. She also has no problem drinking alcohol, as well as water-based beverages, but no plain water. “I can only drink it when I’m about to seriously dehydrate,” Cheek said about water. “I can’t describe the taste, but I dislike it so much that when I know I should be drinking it, I have to force myself or convince myself I need it. If I do drink it, I almost have to shoot it so I don’t taste it — like I just try to get it over with. Moreover, I put all sorts of stuff in it to make myself drink it, like Emergen-C, Crystal Light and other flavored hydration tablets, because I can barely force myself to drink it plain. Watch a video of her talk about her hate for water below:  Cheek is not alone in her dislike for water as Odell Beckham Jr, an American football wide receiver for the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League is another famous water hater. Odell sometimes gets IV treatments to combat dehydration. Odell hates water so much he’ll fight through painful cramps rather than hydrate. “When you get that stomach — it’s all slushy,” he told reporters. “I’m trying to stay hydrated, but sometimes I just gotta get an IV.”