• Gives cheques to widows of fallen soldiers
• Makinde urges support for grieving families Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has said that the nation remains grateful for the selfless service of the Armed Forces through their unquantifiable efforts to ensure global and internal peace and security of lives and property. The governor described the yearly Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration as a unique opportunity to reflect on the contributions and sacrifices made in the past years by the Nigerian Armed Forces. He spoke yesterday at the parade and wreath-laying ceremony for the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration held at the Alagbaka Cenotaph, Akure, the state capital. According to him, the Armed Forces Remembrance Day is also a unique opportunity to reassure and identify with the loved ones and dependants of the fallen heroes. He also thanked the entire members of the Nigerian Armed Forces for controlling crime before, during and after the Yuletide period through “Operation Crocodile Smile.” The governor, who presented cheques to selected widows of fallen soldiers from the 32 Artillery Brigade, Akure, said the relentless efforts of members of the nation’s Armed Forces had started yielding positive results in the state and the country in general. Akeredolu, who charged the local councils to erect befitting cenotaphs at their respective areas, said that the facelift given to the Akure Cenotaph would continue until the desired standard is attained. “This year’s celebration will, as usual, provide the opportunity to reach out to widows of the fallen heroes through credit windows, which had been extended by the Ondo State Micro Credit Agency,” he said. Also, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State yesterday said that the contributions of the fallen heroes required appreciation and urged Nigerians to care for those injured in the course of carrying out their service to the nation. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Makinde spoke at the wreath-laying ceremony and grand finale of the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration held at the Remembrance Arcade, Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .