 Makinde. Photo: TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  The declaration was made by the Chairman, Oyo State Post-Primary Schools Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Pastor Akinade Alamu, who made the declaration at an interactive session with school managers, Saki Zone, Oke-Ogun, held at the main hall of Ansaru Deen High School, Saki, said that a committee had been set up by the governor, Seyi Makinde, to have a data and measurement of individual teacher across the state after which he would personally award the most efficient among them. He said promotion of teachers would no more be ‘business as usual’ as the state administration has concluded plans to award excellency based on measures of efficient and productive input by teachers to make their students excel in external examinations, adding that workers’ remuneration that has always been a major cause of worry had been overcome. ‘’You can see that our government is a listening one. We are here today to have some feedback. Tell us which area we need to improve as government and I can assure you that the era of unpaid salary has gone forever as this administration will continue to make prompt payment of salary its priority. “In the last promotion that we did where over 800 teachers got promoted, there was no report on the beneficiaries, everybody was just moved together at the same time,” he said. Though we believe our teachers are noble, good and hardworking, we may have some bad eggs, who are lazy and might have scaled through without being qualified and the hardworking ones will be feeling cheated. “This is why we are contemplating that at the end of every year, there must be reports on our teachers’ conducts and activities, teachers that are sanctified to be good and efficient need not wait for a general promotion, they will be promoted and honoured as at when due,” he said. He said that the interactive session would be held across the six zones in the state and was meant to maintain a good rapport between the commission and its teachers. Earlier in her welcome address, Saki Zonal Head, Aderonke Oladoyinbo, appreciated the giant stride taken by the present government towards improvement of the educational sector. He said: “This government is playing a great role to ameliorate the plights of teachers and even students by regular payment of monthly salaries, 13-month even paid, issuance of car loan to teachers, mass promotion of teachers that have stagnated on GL 15, provision of almost 23 per cent of state budget on education, free distribution of note and textbooks, intervention classes and many more.” She, therefore, urged teachers to reciprocate the good gesture of the present administration and co-operate with the government by being efficient at their duty posts. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .