 Sanwo-Olu  The governor said this yesterday during the swearing-in of three new members of the state executive council, members of the civil service commission and five permanent secretaries. Sanwo-Olu, who urged the new appointees to further add value to the administration towards delivering democratic dividends to Lagosians, said the new appointees were called to serve from the pool of numerous competent and highly qualified Lagosians, saying that they must work hard to justify the confidence reposed in them with the appointment. He said: “You have been brought on to add value in our quest to deliver the dividends of democracy to the citizens. We are pushing the emblem of our party and we have started implementing several programmes under our project T.H.E.M.E.S. “We must remember that in four months’ time, we will be celebrating our first anniversary. The question that people will be asking is that what have we done in one year? Time will come and time will go but it is what we do with time that prosperity will judge us with. The essence of this reminder is to keep each and everyone of us on the go and to let you know that we need to hit the ground running. “We cannot afford to be complacent in our approach to governance because there is so much to be accomplished within the 1,460 days that we are rushing against. We cannot afford not to succeed. We owe it a duty to live up to the reputation of centre of excellence through the injection of innovative and visionary ideas into governance.” The new political appointees are Paul Bamgbose Martins (Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations), Mr. Gbenga Oyerinde (Special Adviser to the Governor on Central Business District) and Mr. Ganiu Adele Ayuba (Special Adviser, Urban Development). Others include Mrs. Regina Fabanwo (Chairman, Lagos Civil Service Commission) along with Mr. Adeshina Odeyemi, Avoseh Suru, Kamal Olorunoje and Babatunde Seriki who will serve as commissioners in the commission. The five new Permanent Secretaries are Mr. Olujimi Ige (Debt Management Office), Mrs. Kafayat Ajenifuja (Parastatal Monitoring Office), Mr. Hakeem Adeniji Oduyinka (Office of the Civic Engagement), Mr. Isaac Olushina Thorpe (Ministry of Information and Strategy) while Dr. Aina Ayoola moves up as the Permanent Secretary (Primary Healthcare Board.) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .