Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has charged the newly-elected chairmen of the 16 councils in the state to prioritise the welfare of Ekiti people above their personal interests. While inaugurating the chairmen and their deputies yesterday, the governor stated that as the people’s representatives in government, the chairmen must impact the lives of a lot of people. Tenure of the immediate past council chairmen elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expired last week. The governor urged the new council helmsmen, who were elected in December 7, 2019, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to key into the five-point agenda of his administration aimed at eradicating poverty and delivering the dividends of democracy to the grassroots. He advised them to familiarise themselves with the Local Government Administration Laws and Local Government Service Commission Laws of Ekiti State to guide them on the operational activities of the councils. “As the government at the grassroots, you have to ensure that people-oriented programmes and projects are made your priorities. “While you should key into the state’s priorities, I also expect you to develop your own with your budget estimates, with the support of the Ministry of Local Government and Community Development. “In this regard, I enjoin you all to align with the state government’s policies and programmes as boldly and expressly enunciated in our five-point agenda of governance, agriculture and rural development, social investments, knowledge economy and, infrastructure and industrial development,” he said. Governor Fayemi, who reiterated the commitment of his government to rural development, said the inauguration of the new council chairmen was very auspicious, as the state government was committed to executing many rural development projects as captured in the 2020 budget. While urging them to be conscious of the prevailing financial situation in the country, the governor counselled the chairmen to boost Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of their councils to augment their allocations. “As the closest government to the grassroots, our people are expecting much from you and you should not fail or disappoint them. The era of relying solely on allocations for programmes and projects is gone. It is imperative, therefore, for you to devise sustainable ways of boosting the IGR of your respective councils. You can achieve this by plugging all leakages and enshrining accountability in your revenue generation drive,” he said. Fayemi also charged two new commissioners, Mr Ayoola Owolabi (Finance) and Prof. Razaq Bakare (Arts, Culture and Tourism), on creativity and innovation, expressing optimism that the duo would make huge impact in their respective ministries. While responding on behalf of the chairmen, Mrs. Motunde Fajuyi (Ado), promised that the council bosses would key into the rural development programme of the government and make impact the lives of the people positively. Mrs. Fajuyi said that Fayemi’s decision to allow a council election to hold was a demonstration that he was irrevocably committed to deepening democracy. She said the administration’s decision to rehabilitate 1,000 rural roads across the 16 councils was a pointer to the fact the Fayemi administration was mindful of the challenges at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .