Latest technical report by Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), has revealed that the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), may lead to one of two outcomes; a win-win outcome for all African countries, or a zero-sum game in which the gain of one country becomes the loss of another and vice versa.
 
NESG in its, “Impact assessment study and economy-wide implications of the AfCFTA on the Nigerian economy,” released on Monday, said implementation of the continental agreement will trigger a surge in imports across sectors of the Nigerian economy.
 
The major concern, according to NESG, is the issue of dumping and strict enforcement of the Rules of Origin (RoO), as enshrined in the AfCFTA framework document. The relatively large market size of Nigeria makes the economy a target for dumping.  In addition to providing a reliable transportation system and power supply, the report urged the government to restore a business-friendly environment by substantially addressing all major security challenges that discouraged foreign investors from doing business in Nigeria. It also suggests measures to counter the expected negative impact of AfCFTA on government revenue through a combination of trade liberalisation with increased drive for the inflow of foreign saving/investment into the economy. This would complement the government’s economic diversification efforts, which will, in turn, boost its tax revenue base.
 
The Report reads in part: “The Government may begin to undertake deliberate measures that will strengthen sectors, including health, education, electricity, transportation, textile, apparel, and footwear to maximise the benefits that are likely to accrue to them when the AfCFTA agreement comes into force.
  
“This can be done by recognizing these sectors as AfCFTA priority sectors for immediate government support. The government support may include tax breaks/rebate, government-backed preferential loan arrangements from commercial banks, etc.
 
“For sectors that are expected to suffer the greatest losses (including the chemical, chemical products and electrical; wood and wood products; cement and construction sectors), Government needs to create safeguards or incentives for such sectors. These incentives could come in the form of including the sectors in the sensitive list. This will help delay liberalization of these sectors to a later period and allow for the adjustment of the sectors to realities of the AfCFTA agreement.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .