Following the arrest of Mr. Seye Onigbinde, a former banker and partner at Blueprint Consulting, for swindling over 200 Nigerians of about N500 million in illegal forex deals, his company has distanced self from the fraud.
 
Onigbinde had defrauded his victims following his proposal to double their return on investment monthly through forex deals, a promise that he initially fulfilled, thus gaining the trust of his victims. Having gained their trust, especially the first set of investors, he was able to get them to introduce other Nigerians to him.
 
Onigbinde, who operated for about three years with no registered office address and license and without being detected by law enforcement agents, swindled his “clients” and permanently switched off his phone. He was however tracked and arrested by detectives led by the Area Commander Area ‘F’, ACP Akinbayo Olasoji, through his wife who had threatened to run to America with their only child.
 
For swindling his victims with the letterhead of Blueprint Consulting, a knowledge-based accounting and financial advisory service, the company has since issued a rejoinder to state their own side of the story, especially as the company is not licensed to carry out forex deals. Managing Partner, Blueprint Consulting, Tijani Ramoni Adeyanju, disassociating himself and the firm from the fraud, said: “The arrest of Onigbinde, a partner at Blueprint Consulting, has just been brought to the attention of the firm and it is imperative to place issues in proper perspective.
 
“Blueprint Consulting is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission to carry out the business of accounting services, training, tax advisory and business support services; that Blueprint Consulting is not in the business of trading of Foreign Exchange or any allied services whatsoever; that Mr. Seye Onigbinde traded in Foreign Exchange in his personal capacity and not as a partner in Blueprint Consulting; that Onigbinde did this illegally without the consent and or authority of other partners of the company. “We use this opportunity to indicate the readiness of Blueprint Consulting to indicate the availability of our Managing Partner, Mr. Tijani Ramoni Adeyanju, to cooperate with the security agencies in their investigations of the allegations levied against Mr. Seye Onigbinde.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .