Four persons were confirmed dead and four others left with severe injuries in a lone accident around Pipeline Junction, Ogere, Ogun State, along the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Also, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) command in Niger State has confirmed the death of three persons after an auto crash along Bida-Kutigi road in Bida Local Government Area (LGA) of the state yesterday.
 
Spokesperson for Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the Ogere incident yesterday in Abeokuta. Akinbiyi noted that the accident occurred in the early hours of Thursday at about 4:30a.m. and it involved a Man Diesel truck marked TKP 653 XA conveying people, which was also loaded with tubers of yam.
 
He explained that the accident involved 14 people, comprising 13 male and one female. “Four male persons died with four other male persons sustaining injuries. “I learnt the vehicle was coming from the north inbound Lagos and loaded with yam. The casualty was much because some of the passengers who are also likely owners of the yam were seating on the yam in the open space at the back.
 
“The truck lost control due to excessive speed and poor visibility, fell by its side with the yam and the vehicle fell on some of those it was carrying,” he said.
 
Akinbiyi added that the bodies of the deceased had been deposited at FOS Mortuary, Ipara Remo, Ogun, while the injured were taken to Idera Hospital, Sagamu.
 
He advised motorists to maintain their vehicles, avoid speed and night travel if possible, especially now that the harmattan season is here, with poor visibility everywhere.
 
Meanwhile, the FRSC Command in Niger yesterday confirmed the death of three persons in an accident along Bida-Kutigi road in Bida Local Government Area of Niger State. The state FRSC Sector Commander, Joel Dagwa, disclosed this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna on Thursday.
 
Dagwa said the accident, which occurred on Wednesday involved a Toyota Camry with registration number BCH 652 QD and a motorcycle with registration number RBC 102 MJ. He said seven persons were involved in the accident, but two were killed; a female and a male. “We have deposited the corpses at Federal Medical Centre Bida,’’ Dagwa said.
 
He blamed the incident on dangerous overtaking. Dagwa said the corps would continue to monitor road users to guard against overloading and dangerous driving.
 
“We will sustain our ongoing aggressive patrols across highways to ensure that road users adhere strictly to traffic rules and regulations to avoid road accidents,’’ he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .