Nigerians are not holding back their frustrations over the incessant collapse of the national grid that has caused the national blackout in recent times. The national electricity grid collapsed twice in less than two hours on Thursday making it the more than 11 times it collapsed in 13 months. In January 2019, the system broke down four times and once each in February and April. In May, the national grid collapses twice in 24 hours, while on June 30, a fire outbreak at a power substation in Benin, Edo state, led to the total collapse of the national grid. Some parts of the country were also thrown into darkness for hours on August 30, following the collapse of the national grid. Many Nigerians criticise the latest collapse of the grid on the power minister Sale Mamman while comparing him to his predecessor, Babatunde Fashola. The ministry was enmeshed in controversies earlier in the month after the Mamman’s spokesman, Aaron Artimas, said Nigerians should query the immediate past leadership of the ministry for the current state of power sector despite President Muhammadu Buhari administration “concerted efforts.” But Nigerians who vented their anger on Twitter said the minister has not done any better. In the last 3months, national grid has collapsed more than 4times and people don't even know how long it will continue. Abeg o, Minister of Collapsed National Grid, wetin dey electricate? Na still wetin Fashola do dey collapse the grid? — Captain Kunle Shobo (@ROS1609) January 17, 2020  Oga minister @EngrSMamman kilonsele gangan? There’s no difference between you and your failed predecessor Fashola o! National grid have been down and you’re busy drinking tea — Eze (@Pellentini) January 17, 2020  If you think Fashola didn't do anything as power minister, think again…His replacement can't keep up! Competence cannot be bought! Fashola is forever a yardstick that many can't meet…great guy! — Sidney  (@sidramatics) January 16, 2020  Fashola, a lawyer, experienced politician did far better with the power. He had shown better approach to tackling the incessant epileptic power supply. The current minister, Mamman, an Engineer is embarrassing us. Since he was appointed 3 times national grid failed. — OLAGUNJU MAYOWA ❁ (@iam_doctormayor) January 17, 2020  twitter.com/KaykalasRr/status/1217928525552013313 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .