Janine Sanchez and Suleiman Isah The maxim ‘love knows no bound’ holds true. Over the weekend a 46-year-old American woman, Janine Sanchez located her suitor, a 23-year-old Suleiman Isah in the city of Kano, Nigeria. Sanchez, a mother of two, who was in African continent for the first time on the invitation of Isah, is ready to marry her Instagram lover in Kano. Sanchez and Isah, became friends on Instagram about 10 months ago and since fell in love with each other, The Guardian learnt. The decision of the pair to be together as a couple informed Sanchez’s decision to visit Panshekara quarters in Kumbtso local government area of Kano, Nigeria. A visibly delighted Sanchez revealed how their date all started on Instagram while chatting with journalists at a recreation park in Kano at the weekend. “He messaged me on Instagram saying Hi. But there was a guy messaging me and Isha knew he was a scammer so he said to the guy one day, ‘get a job and quit scamming innocent people’ and so I thought he sounded like a nice guy. That was the beginning ” A chef based in Lindon, California, Sanchez said she wouldn’t mind returning to America with her new love after the marriage in Kano. “I have two kids, a boy and a girl from my previous marriage. I and my ex-husband have joint custody of our kids the reason I cannot take the kids away from their father. “I like the people here, they are very friendly and welcoming. The kids love me they embrace me playing with my hairs and skin. And the people are very busy and hardworking. Although, i wasn’t looking to date anybody younger than 30 but he is very mature for his age. When I talk to him I feel like I’m talking to somebody my age.” Sanchez said. Responding to question as to whether she was in love or desperate to get a suitor in Nigeria, Sanchez replied, “I’m in love”. Unlike a popular response, Isah in his constant straight face said he had always willing to marrying a white woman so much so to have kids of mixed origins. “It was a dream come true for me when she responded to my message on Instagram. We continued exchanging messages and our relationship became closer. I was happy when I invited her to visit me in Kano and she accepted to come”. On whether the barrier of age and race wouldn’t wouldn’t count against his planned engagement with Sanchez, Isha who is a professional barber replied on the contrary. “That is not a problem at all and in fact that is not important. The age difference doesn’t matter as Prophet Muhammad, married an older woman too. So I’m following in his Sunnah. “When I travel to America, I will be visiting my parents and other relations regularly. And she has agreed that even our future kids will be coming to Nigeria to visit my family.” Isah said.