 Nigerian rapper Blaqbonez has released a diss track titled “Green Blaq Green” addressed to Kenyan rapper and 2020 Sound City MVP Awards winner Khaligraph Jones. It is officially safe to say it is “beef” season again.  Fresh on the mind is last year’s heated rap battle between Nigerian rappers M.I Abaga and Vector Tha Viper. And even more recently on the international scene, we witnessed a spine shattering Grime battle between UK rappers Stormzy and Wiley. “Green Blaq Green” – Blaqbonez “Green Blaq Green” is Blaqbonez’s response to “Best Rapper In Nigeria” a diss track Khaligraph Jones had earlier addressed to the “Shut Up” rapper. In his reply, Blaqbonez accused Jones of trying to blow in the Nigerian music industry, also referencing the Kenyan’s collaboration with Nigerian rappers M.I and Ice Prince Zamani. M.I featured Jones in “Black Bill Gates” a track on M.I’s 2016 mixtape Illegal Music 3. “The Nigerian hype juice got this nigga obsessed, you been tryna blow here but no one ever cared. M.I, Ice tried to help bruh it never could work.”  Both rappers took to lyrical arms following Blaqbonez remarks at Khaligraph Jones after the Kenyan emerged best Hip Hop act at the 2020 Sound City MVP Awards. “Somebody tell Khaligraph that I’m still the best rapper in Africa Sound City got it wrong. Diss track in the morning, you know what I mean!!!” Although Blaqbonez issued an apology and congratulated Jones saying he was kidding and shouldn’t be taken seriously, he would later take back the apology. “Best Rapper In Nigeria” – Khaligraph Jones In “Best Rapper In Nigeria” Kenyan rapper Kaligraph Jones whose birth name is Brian Ouko Robert declares himself the best rapper in Nigeria. Jones’s declaration is following his emergence as the best Hip Hop act at the 2020 Sound City MVP Awards presented by Soundcity TV, a Nigerian lifestyle and music channel. Jones came out victorious in a category that included rappers such as Blaqbonez (NG), Falz (NG), Kwesta (SA), Medikal (GH), Nyashinski (KE), Sarkodie (GH), Reminisce (NG), Riky Rick (SA), Zakwe (SA). Jones alluded to his victory over Blaqbonez who he called a “clown” and “lesbian” in his diss track: “Now you claim to be the next Davido, but I came and I beat in front of your people” Jones also addressed the Nigerian rap industry lamenting that Nigerian rappers used to be the hardest but they are now chasing fame and doing Afrobeats. “Nigerian rappers used to be the hardest in the game but along the way it changed and then you started chasing fame, fix your lives up before you think of mentioning my name. “Mode 9 and M.I? Those are be the best, Vector Tha Viper? He got my respect. Ice Prince Zamani? He’s the coldest in the west. The rest are doing Afrobeat motherfucker what a mess!” 