Lagos State Special Committee on the clean-up of Ikoyi and Victoria will commence enforcement of environmental and traffic laws in Ikoyi and victoria island on Friday, January 10. The committee chairman, Tunji Bello, in a press statement said the government is collaborating with Ikoyi and Victoria Island Residents Association (VIIRA), and other agencies to vacate hoodlums and eradicate illegal structures in the areas. The task force team consist of Lagos Neighbourhood Watch, Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) and LASPARK officers with security aide by the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Task Force. Bello, Lagos State environment commissioner said the clean-up task force will perform its duties thoroughly and ensure that defaulters of the state environmental and road traffic laws are punished accordingly. The commissioner stated that the task force will ensure the immediate trial violators of the State Environmental Sanitation Offences and Road Traffic Laws through the Mobile Courts. Bello explained that the committee had already conducted a reconnaissance operation of several areas in Victoria Island and Ikoyi in November to identify specific areas of an infraction. He said the enforcement exercise will involve clearing of refuse, identification and removal of all illegal structures on walkways, roadside mechanics and drainage blockades. He reiterated that the activities of night club owners and karaoke operators without adequate parking lots will be curtailed to prevent persistent traffic along major roads, especially in Victoria Island. Bello warned that the full force of the law will be brought to bear on religious institutions that do not desist from disturbing the peace of residents with noise from blaring speakers in their establishments. The commissioner affirmed that the committee will also enforce the provisions of the State Traffic Law during the enforcement by apprehending and prosecuting commercial bus drivers and motorcyclists who ply restricted routes and drive against traffic. “The task force will also dislodge illegal occupants of abandoned buildings, several of which have been identified as hideouts for criminals and prostitutes. Destitutes who roam the streets at daytime and perpetrate crimes at dusk will be apprehended,” Bello said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .