The National Youth Leader, Middle Belt Forum, Emma Zopmal, in a strongly-worded statement, yesterday in Jos, has called on Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, as an illustrious son of the Middle Belt, to resign his position as Chairman of Northern Governors Forum and join the struggle for the Middle Belt. According to Zopmal, “Last year October, two hardworking youths who are indigenes of Mangu Local Government Area of Plateau State were gruesomely murdered by Boko Haram after capturing them at the place of work. We woke up today with the devastating news of Mupun youth of Pankshin Local Council of Plateau State, a student of the University of Maiduguri, who has been murdered by the same group. This group abducted one Lilian Gyang from Barkin Ladi Local Council of Plateau State on January 10, 2020, on her way to Maiduguri resuming school. She’s a 100L student at the same University of Maiduguri. Up to now, she’s still in their custody. “We kindly urge Governor Simon Bako Lalong to resign that position of Chairman of Northern Governors Forum and join his people in the struggle of Middle Belt.” Many of our people have followed that path in the past, but were later disgraced by the same northern elements. It’s good for him to borrow a leaf from our father, and leader, Paul Unongu, who out of patriotism to Benue people and Middle Belt identity, resigned his position as Chairman of Northern Elders Forum. “It won’t cost Governor Lalong anything to stand with his people at this dicey moment in our national life. Middle Belt people will be ready to receive him anytime he repents. We expect the following steps to be taken by His Excellency, Rt. Hon Simon Bako Lalong, Governor of Plateau State.” He said Lalong should call on all Plateau indigenes schooling in Borno State to come back home and be given admission in Plateau State University, adding that the Governor should come out openly to caution Plateau indigenes working in Borno State or traveling around that axis. “He should use the position as Chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum for the last time, to address the world on the hate against Plateau indigenes. He should partner with other Universities in the Middle Belt and Southern Nigeria so that the indigenes will secure admission. “Lastly, we commend the efforts embarked upon by the Governor of Borno State, Prof Babagana Zulum, in finding lasting solutions to the prolonged insurgency in the state. It is a herculean task but we urge him to keep on doing his best, he will make huge and historic progress.”