Herdsmen have again, killed 13 persons and injured five others in a fresh attack on Kwatas village, Bokkos district, Bokkos Council Area of Plateau State. The critically injured locals are said to be receiving treatment at the Bokkos General Hospital.Plateau State Commissioner of Police (CP), Isaac Akinmoyede, who confirmed the incident, said detectives and conventional policemen have been deployed to the area to restore calm. A statement issued yesterday by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Gabriel Ogaba, disclosed that, “Immediately the Command received the information, the CP deployed detectives, conventional policemen and PMF personnel to the area to restore peace and arrest perpetrators of the dastardly act.” Meanwhile, the command solicited vital information from members of the public that would assist the police to arrest those involved in the attack with a view to prosecuting them.It, therefore, urged the people of Bokkos Council to remain calm and continue with their normal businesses as security men were on ground to restore peace. The attack, which happened on Sunday night, came barely two weeks after a similar attack on Mangu Council Area of the state, which left no fewer than 12 persons dead.While reacting to the killings at the weekend, Emir of Kanam, Alhaji Mohammadu Muazu Mohammadu II, appealed to the Federal Government to be proactive in safeguarding the lives and property of citizens, lamenting that people were losing faith in government’s ability tackling insecurity in the country. “Government should do everything possible to bring to end insecurity in the country. People are dying every day and every minute as a result of insurgency and insecurity in the country. “The Federal Government should, therefore, come up with a foolproof solution to curb it because people have started to lose faith in tackling the country’s security situation,” he said.While addressing the insecurity issues, Uba said investigations of the attack were ongoing, assuring that arrests would soon be made. “We are still investigating the killings and we have put in place security measures to arrest perpetrators of the Mangu killings. We have met relevant stakeholders in Mangu to update us with relevant information for arrests,” he added.He also charged residents of Plateau State to embrace peace and report any criminal activities around their communities to the appropriate authorities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .