Following the shocking news of the death of Kobe Bryant, fans and celebrities alike have taken to social media to mourn the basketball legend. Bryant, 41, and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna were among the nine people killed when their helicopter slammed into a hillside near Malibu in Los Angeles County, California on Sunday. The news of Bryant's death surfaced just as music stars were preparing for the Grammy Awards at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, where Bryant played many home games for the Lakers.  Celebrities such as Barack Obama, Kevin Hart, Drake, Taylor Swift, Kanye West, Justin Bieber and more took to social media to react to the news of Bryant's death: Kobe was a legend on the court and just getting started in what would have been just as meaningful a second act. To lose Gianna is even more heartbreaking to us as parents. Michelle and I send love and prayers to Vanessa and the entire Bryant family on an unthinkable day. — Barack Obama (@BarackObama) January 26, 2020  United States President, Donald Trump: .....Melania and I send our warmest condolences to Vanessa and the wonderful Bryant family. May God be with you all! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) January 26, 2020  "This honestly doesn’t make sense....I just saw you man. This hurts my heart. God please place your hands on his family and help guide them thru this unbearable time. We love you forever man...Legends never die!!!! #MambaMentality #RIP.... RIP to the other passengers as well as sending prayers to their families." Kevin Hart said in an Instagram post.   This honestly doesn’t make sense....I just saw you man. This hurts my heart. God please place your hands on his family and help guide them thru this unbearable time. We love you forever man...Legends never die!!!! #MambaMentality #RIP.... RIP to the other passengers as well as sending prayers to their families. A post shared by  Kevin Hart (@kevinhart4real) on Jan 26, 2020 at 12:42pm PST  Kanye West tweeted a throwback picture of himself, Bryant, record producer Swizz Beatz and rapper Mos Def all smiles. "Kobe, We love you brother. We’re praying for your family and appreciate the life you’ve lived and all the inspiration you gave." Kobe, We love you brother We’re praying for your family and appreciate the life you’ve lived and all the inspiration you gave pic.twitter.com/pxbgLOOmpY — ye (@kanyewest) January 26, 2020  Kanye's wife, Kim Kardashian shared a black and white image of Bryant and his daughter Gianna. "My heart is so heavy. No one should ever experience what the families involved are going through," she wrote. "This has affected us all so much but I cannot begin to imagine what Vanessa is feeling losing her husband and her baby girl… . Rest In Peace Legend."   My heart is so heavy. No one should ever experience what the families involved are going through. This has affected us all so much but I cannot begin to imagine what Vanessa is feeling losing her husband and her baby girl. I cry just thinking about it. I am praying for the Bryant family, the Altobelli family and the families of all who perished in this unthinkable tragedy. Rest In Peace Legend A post shared by  Kim Kardashian West (@kimkardashian) on Jan 26, 2020 at 4:03pm PST  Leonardo DiCaprio: Kobe was truly larger than life, a legend. May he and all those who lost their lives today rest in peace. Love and condolences to his family. LA will never be the same. — Leonardo DiCaprio (@LeoDiCaprio) January 26, 2020  Taylor Swift: My heart is in pieces hearing the news of this unimaginable tragedy. I can’t fathom what the families are going through. Kobe meant so much to me and to us all. Sending my prayers, love, and endless condolences to Vanessa and the family and anyone who lost someone on that flight. — Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13) January 26, 2020  Justin Bieber shared an old photo of him and Bryant on Instagram: "It can't be. You always encouraged me mamba. Gave me some of the best quotes that we smile about to this day.! Love you man!" Bieber captioned the photo.   It can't be. You always encouraged me mamba. Gave me me some of the best quotes that we smile about to this day.! Love you man! A post shared by  Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) on Jan 26, 2020 at 12:20pm PST 