 Pupils of The Foreshore School, Ikoyi, Lagos during their stage performance titled Pied Piper  Administrator of the Foreshore School, Ikoyi, Oyin Egbeyemi, who said this at the presentation of “Pied Piper,” a play produced by the school, stressed this said creative skills are indispensable for all professionals, as this is what drives innovation and progress.She noted that some schools methodology of impacting knowledge does not align with the current workforce, underlining that creative thinking skills are important to master in many professions and workplaces. The administrator further observed that the country is going through a dire stage of outcomes because; the education sector has failed to produce what the workforce requires in terms of skills. She said: “One of the problems of the educational sector was that children were not taught how to think creatively. Creative thinkers are able to look at things in new and unconventional ways and then come up with solutions no one previously thought of. This event was to provide platform for the children to creatively showcase their performance and this is what is expected of every educationist that has the interest of these children at heart. “We have the vision to through our curriculum develop children that would be globally competitive and stand out and be confident so as to make a difference. Our main assets should be the people. However, if our people are not educated sufficiently, the country cannot develop and grow. We need to restructure the education system, in line with our population because we are growing exponentially so as to make sure we are meeting the target of the workforce.” Affirming that there are lapses in both public and private sector, she said the supervisory ministries across the country and curriculum developers must be and doing to ensure that truly learning is actually taking place in Nigerian schools. “Some schools do not provide enough skills and their operational style does not align with the workforce neither does it guarantee standards. The workspace is not satisfied with the quality of people they are recruiting so they have to spend more time training. Students must be taught skills like public speaking, leadership, communication, problem-solving, soft skills among others,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .