Ned Nwoko A report by the World Health Organisation (WHO) has it that malaria affected about 219 million people worldwide in 2017, out of which 435,000 of them succumbed to the disease in that year. A large number of these victims were recorded in Africa and as such, it makes total sense that Prince Ned Munir Nwoko is on a mission to rid Nigeria and Africa at large of malaria through his foundation Ned Nwoko Foundation. The convener of the Malaria Eradication In Africa Project, Nwoko yesterday, January 7, left for Antarctica as another step in his global fight for the eradication of malaria. Nwoko had on January 6 left for South Africa ahead of his trip to Antarctica and he was welcomed by Anioma at the Cape Town International Airport. The “Malaria Eradication In Africa Project” was launched on 18th December 2019 in Abuja with the aim of ridding Africa of the deadly disease caused by the malaria parasite. Ned Nwoko Nwoko who is married to Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels through his foundation aims to draw global attention to the effects on malaria. The Prince Ned Nwoko Foundation also plans to fund research for malaria vaccine to the tune of $750,000 to be accessed by five universities across Africa and encourage African Heads of State to fumigate their environment simultaneously. It was gathered that his trip to Antarctica is to help him to interact with leading researchers working on more efficacy drugs for the control of the deadly disease. Although no humans live in Antarctica permanently, about 1,000 to 5,000 people live through the year at the science stations in Antarctica. Thanks to its effect on the Earth’s climate and ocean systems, Antarctica is vital to science and has overtime revealed much about the impact of human activity on the natural world over the past one million years. WHO currently recognises only six African countries of the 54 that make up the African continent as malaria-free. The countries are Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Seychelles, Lesotho and Libya while the remaining 47 are endemic countries.