Jennifer Gates and Nayel Nassar | Instagram/jenniferkgates Jennifer Katherine Gates, the eldest daughter of billionaire businessman Bill Gates and wife Melinda Gates is getting married to Egyptian equestrian Nayel Nassar. Jennifer, 23, on Wednesday, announced her engagement to Nassar, 28, via her Instagram page in which she shared a picture that depicted her reaction after her new fiancé proposed during a snowy ski trip. “Nayel Nassar, you are one of a kind. Absolutely swept me off my feet this past weekend, surprising me in the most meaningful location over one of our many shared passions,” she captioned the image. “I can’t wait to spend the rest of our lives learning, growing, laughing and loving together. Yes a million times over.”   Nayel Nassar, you are one of a kind. Absolutely swept me off my feet this past weekend, surprising me in the most meaningful location over one of our many shared passions. I can’t wait to spend the rest of our lives learning, growing, laughing and loving together. Yes a million times over.  AHHH!!! A post shared by  Jennifer Gates (@jenniferkgates) on Jan 29, 2020 at 12:29pm PST  An elated Nassar also took to his own Instagram page to announce, “SHE SAID YES!! ”. “I’m feeling like the luckiest (and happiest) man in the world right about now. Jenn, you are everything I could have possibly imagined..and so much more. I can’t wait to keep growing together through this journey called life, and I simply can’t imagine mine without you anymore. Love you more than you can possibly imagine, and thank you for making every single day feel like a dream to me. Here’s to forever! ”   SHE SAID YES!!  I’m feeling like the luckiest (and happiest) man in the world right about now. Jenn, you are everything I could have possibly imagined..and so much more. I can’t wait to keep growing together through this journey called life, and I simply can’t imagine mine without you anymore. Love you more than you can possibly imagine, and thank you for making every single day feel like a dream to me. Here’s to forever! A post shared by  Nayel Nassar (@nayelnassar) on Jan 29, 2020 at 12:49pm PST  Jennifer commented on her fiance’s post and wrote: “Yep crying again its fine life is perfect rn you’re everything to me,” adding a ring and hearts emoji. The engagement comes just weeks after Jennifer’s parents Bill, 64, and Melinda, 55 celebrated their 26th wedding anniversary. The couple — who also share son Rory, 20, and daughter Phoebe, 17 — married on Jan. 1, 1994.