Officials of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC), Lagos State Command, have arrested eight persons for allegedly operating fake Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) registration centres in the state. The suspects, who were not officially accredited by JAMB as agents, allegedly used their illegal outlets to extort money from innocent and unsuspecting young Nigerians seeking admission into the various universities in the country. Parading the suspects, the commandant of NSCDC, Lagos command, Cyprian Otoibhi, at the command headquarters, Alausa, Ikeja, gave the names of the suspects as Bamiro Oluwaseun, Subair Ilyas Adewale, Oshikoya Segun, Victor Faith, Olayinka Oluwashina, Elvis Okorafor, Igwoku Luckson and Ajetimobi Ooufemi. The Commandant said the suspects, instead of collecting the stipulated N4,700 went ahead to collect between N6,500 and N8,000 from candidates. He said the Commandant General of the Corp, Abdullahi Haba Muhammadu, had directed all commands to identify, and fish-out operators of illegal JAMB registration centres across the country for exploiting the innocence of young Nigerians who are seeking admission into institutions of higher learning to enrich themselves. He said that upon receipt of the directive, he posted plain cloth officials of the corp to pose as prospective JAMB candidates. “These officials went to different centres posing as JAMB candidates. At the fake centres, the undercover officials of NSCDC told the operators that they would like to register for JAMB and the operators collected N8,000 each from them. “The operators were arrested having established the fact that they were charging more than the stipulated amount approved by government. This is a warning to other operators of fake JAMB registration centres for them to desist from getting themselves involved in such a criminal act as the long arm of the law will soon catch up on them. I would also advise parents to take active interest in the education of their children as many have fell pray to the antics of the criminals” he added. One of the suspects, Ajetumobi Olufemi, 28, proprietor of Achievers Educate, Agboju, said the additional amount charged by his school is for services rendered. “I operate an education centre and my candidates cut across all works of life. On the day I was arrested, my clerk called to say that some security operatives were in my office removing my property. I rushed to my office only to see that some NSCDC officials where the ones. They took me away on the ground that I operate fake JAMB centres. I don’t register JAMB I only advise candidates on courses to fill and later direct them to an approved centre,” he added	. The breakdown of the official cost of JAMB registration amounting to N4,700 is: JAMB 2020 Registration Form (E-Pin) – N3,500; CBT Centre Registration Fee – N700 (for candidates who want to practice JAMB CBT); and JAMB Mandatory Textbook (Novel) – N500 (Sweet Sixteen). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .