The Guinea Conakry community in Nigeria has solicited President Muhammad Buhari and other African leaders’s support to discourage President Alpha Konde from his third term bid. Konde, who was the first democratically elected president of the country, has been in the office since 2010, but the city of Conakry has been up in turmoil since the he announced his desire to seek referendum to extend his stay in office. However, the Leader of the Guinea Conakry community in Nigeria, Mohammed Bah, at a media briefing after a peaceful procession yesterday in Abuja said, “We are calling on the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), African Union (AU), United Nations (UN) and other African leaders to prevail on Konde to hand over governance. He lamented that Guineans were being killed daily by security agents allegedly recruited by President Konde to shoot anybody that protest against him, saying,  “We cannot protest in our country because of fear of being killed or maimed by security officers who have been paid by the President. “The President wants to tamper with the constitution and by the end of second term, he is trying organise a referendum to have another 5-6 year term so that he can be president for life and create a kingdom for himself. But all Guineans across the world are against it.”	He urged the international community to avoid a fire brigade approach and come to their aid as soon as possible by stopping President Konde from the referendum to prolong his stay in office. “We want peace in our country, neighboring countries around us like Sierra Leone and Liberia are very fragile and they also just passed through war so we don’t have where to run to.”“We don’t want war in our country and so we call on the international community to rise up and tell our president to do the right thing,” he stated. Also, a member of parliament from the Pita Sow region, AlHassan Sow, said, “We want to end a message to Guinea Conakry. The time is very bad, the country is burning and we appeal to President Buhari and all African leaders to come together before the country burns. They should not wait until it is late before assisting the country.”He said the youths, women and children were appealing to Nigeria and other African leaders to stop the needless killings of the innocent people, adding that the youths who should be in school were either dead or in the hospitals. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .