 Lanre Olusola  Instead of having endless lists, feeling overwhelmed and frustrated as the year ends, it is important that you focus on one thing this coming year and have the resolve to stick with it no matter what opposition comes your way. According to a research published in the Journal of Clinical Psychology, by the end of January, more than a third of people who set resolutions have ditched them. Why?
Because resolutions are often unattainable, and invoked by a sense of false hope. Another study published by the American Psychological Association revealed that people do not take into consideration the amount of time, effort, ease or consequences of the changes they’re trying to achieve. Pick one thing to focus on this new year. What is the one thing that would drastically improve your life one year from now? Maybe it is losing weight, going back to school, maybe it is a relationship you need to work on or maybe it is something in your career. What is that one thing for you? That is the one thing that you know in your heart you should focus on this year. Let’s not focus on a bunch of things and get distracted. Instead, focus on one thing which makes life simpler and easier to live.Focus on one thing and instead of creating a long list of goals, you need to create a “Should Do” list consisting of tasks that are of absolute importance and need to be done first. This way, you tackle the things you can get done and then move on to other smaller tasks. After you’ve chosen your one thing to focus on, the next thing is to build simple small daily habits with ONE clear cut goal that will propel you forward. Whether you are looking to make more money, improve your health, or spend more time with your family, using this combination of practices will give you success to attain what you want to achieve.So, don’t just write a list of resolutions, instead pick ONE thing to focus on and learn how to break down the barriers with smaller steps. Some examples of this would be:
Drink too many beverages? Take one of those drinks and cut it in half for 1 day
Not drinking enough water. Add a notification to your work schedule telling you to drink every hour.
Not getting to the gym. Wake up 30 minutes earlier so you can work out in the morning and get it over with.
Want to add more veggies to your diet? Try a new vegetable that is in season as you shop and look up a fun way to make it taste great.
Eating out all the time? Plan your meals each week.
Want to lose 10kg? Track one meal to see content of what you eat and how much you are really eating.
Constantly tired? Track how many hours of sleep you are getting and add an extra hour each night until you have enough rest and can get through your day. To achieve this one thing, it is necessary to do the following:
Develop Micro Habits – As Aristotle said, “we are what we repeatedly do”, consistently working on micro habits is taking small steps towards achieving our big focus goal. This is essential because Jim Ryun (a three-time Olympic runner said “Motivation is what gets you started. Habit is what keeps you going”. We need to develop micro habits which are:
Related to something you care about. Your micro habits can fall under the umbrellas of Health, Wealth, and Family.
Something you can do in less than 60 seconds. That’s what makes them micro.Too small to fail. These are habits so small you’d be embarrassed if you couldn’t check the box each day to say you got them done. The idea is to set yourself up for success by doing small habits daily. If you have 30 different things to do each day, all of a sudden, they become overwhelming and stressful. Tracking – After deciding your goal and the small daily habits to assist you in accomplishing it, the next step is tracking it by using journals to write how consistent you’ve been. Stay discipline – It is important to be disciplined to stay committed to achieving your resolutions which sometimes, seem like a daunting task. Some people never even try because they think they don’t have enough discipline to reach their goals. However, by taking little steps each day towards the goal, and staying committed to the steps, will lead you to achieving your resolutions. Accountability Partner – Having an accountability partner is also critically important to achieving that one thing for 2020. You need someone who can hold your hands towards ensuring that your goals are accomplished.End this year by identifying that one major goal that is important for you to accomplish in 2020, outline and begin to take the small daily habits to achieving it.To work with you through this process of intentionally taking the little steps required to achieve that one thing for 2020, you can register for our Life Mapping Program scheduled for January 2020 by calling 08077077000 or send an email to info@olcang.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .