 Governor Lalong (second from right) listening to Adagwom Izere of Jos His Royal Highness, Ada Emmanuel Azik after inspecting Neighbourhood Security Watchtower  The government recently disclosed its intention to strengthen the security architecture in the state so as to consolidate on the peace that has been experienced in recent times, which seemed shattered recently in an attack on Kunben village in Kombun District of Mangu Local Government Area.
  
Governor Simon Bako Lalong, who dropped the hint while inspecting the first Neighbourhood Security Watchtower at Dutse Uku in Jos North Local Government Area, said the state has suffered enough of wanton killings and was prepared to put a permanent stop to the menace. Prior to his inspection visit, the governor, who is also the Chairman of Northern States Governors’ Forum (NSGF), cancelled all other engagements, including a planned tour of road project sites, to visit Kunben after an attack by gunmen.  Security Watch Tower
Governor Lalong, who arrived at Dutsu Uku site amidst a rousing welcome by residents of the area, was briefed on the concept of the Neighbourhood Security Watchtower by the Permanent Secretary, Cabinet, and Special Services, Mr. Cornelius Shiolbial, who explained that the project is geared at ensuring that there is an early warning system to pre-empt conflicts and nip them in the bud.  “I climbed up to the tower and could see almost all parts of the city of Jos. This should tell those who are criminally minded that I will be watching you and send the security agencies to track you down and get you arrested. We have done a lot to ensure that people live in peace and nobody will be allowed to change that.”
  
While thanking the people for supporting his administration and remaining law-abiding, Governor Lalong explained that the government would set up more of such watchtowers and posts in key flashpoints once the pilot scheme is completed in Dutse Uku area.
  
The Adagwom Izere of Jos His Royal Highness, Ada Emmanuel Azik, commended the governor for fulfilling his campaign promises by building infrastructure and also pursuing the path of peace and progress of the state. Lalong responded by saying that the continuing support of Izere people to the government would enable it to discharge its responsibilities to the citizens. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .