 Oghenekaro Peter Etebo delighted to return to LaLiga Santander  “It is like a new chapter for me, a new beginning,” he said. “I was in Spain before, with Las Palmas last year, so this is a new beginning. It is for me to make sure that I do my best and give my all for Getafe. “It is not going to be easy, there will be hard work between now and the end of the season. Let’s see what I am going to bring to the team,” he stated.At Las Palmas during what was a difficult season for the Canary Islanders, Etebor’s physical and technical talents stood he out. He inspired the team to a 1-0 victory at Malaga on his debut, and gave his all for the cause despite the team’s inevitable relegation. The now 24-year-old is entering a much more positive situation at Getafe. Jose Bordalas’ highly organised team finished eighth and fifth in LaLiga Santander in the last two seasons, and currently sit seventh in the table at the half-way point of 2019/20. Also on the horizon for Getafe is a Europa League tie against Ajax of Amsterdam, with last season’s Champions League semi-finalists due at the Coliseum for the last 32 first leg on Thursday February 20. This brings back memories of previous ‘Euro-Geta’ teams who beat Tottenham and Benfica before a very unlucky exit to Bayern Munich in the 2007/08 UEFA Cup. Etebo says that the draw of such glamorous European football was attractive, however the main reason he chose to join Getafe was because he could see the team moving in the right direction, thanks to a positive dressing-room atmosphere. “I came here first of all because I love the team,” he says. “I had other options. I believe that if you go to a good team, a good dressing-room, where you are wanted, there is every possibility that you will do well. I am not here just because of the Europa League, but because I know the team will push me forward in my career. Every game for me is important, and I want my team to do well.” Etebo will take over Getafe’s number five shirt from the departing Markel Bergara and compete for a place in central midfield with Uruguay international Mauro Arambarri and Serbia’s Nemanja Maksimovic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .