 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV  In a statement, yesterday, in Abuja, Frank said aside Governor Wike of Rivers State, many governors in the opposition party are daily lobbying to be in President Muhammadu Buhari’s good books; hence they don’t speak on national issues affecting Nigerians negatively. Reacting to a media report that PDP was planning to stage a nationwide protest against the Supreme Court ruling in Imo, Frank said the move is belated. “PDP’s planned protest is medicine after death. Why didn’t they protest when the former CJN Onnogen was forcefully removed from office? Why didn’t they protest, when the last presidential election was rigged in favour of APC by INEC and the Army? Why didn’t they protest, when the Supreme Court unjustly threw out presidential election appeal? Today, Nigerians are seeing the result of the forceful removal of Onnogen from the office. It’s a bit late for PDP to protest,” he said. Frank condemned Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who travelled last Friday to London with Buhari when his Imo counterpart (Emeka Ihedioha) was removed as governor. Frank said it was shameful that though PDP has 16 governors, only one or two are committed to the party’s cause. He said: “Some PDP governors are the problem of Nigeria. Some of them go to the extent of lobbying the cabal to travel out with Buhari, to be in his good books. They are selfish, corrupt, over-ambitious and shameless. “Some of them betrayed PDP during the last presidential election and gave APC 25 percent in their states in return for not being prosecuted after they leave the office and to win their second term. “Aside Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers, and sometimes Benue State’s Samuel Ortom, other PDP governors are PDP by day and APC by night. They fraternise with APC, thereby rendering PDP incapacitated and unable to function properly or effectively playing the role of effective opposition. “Nigerians are being taken for a ride by the APC administration, and the PDP can’t do anything to checkmate it because most PDP members, and especially some governors, are compromised…”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .