• 2020 final of WCGC holds in Portugal
The return of one of the nation’s most attractive golf tournaments, the World Corporate Golf Challenge is already causing lots of excitement within the golf community because of what it brings to the calendar. Recently in Portugal, Falcon Golf Development Company (FGDC) was awarded the rights to market the event in Nigeria. At a recent media briefing in Lagos, FGDC’s Remi Olukoya explained that the new deal brought to two such international competitions organised by the outfit. He listed the first as the International Pairs, which enters its sixth year this term and the newly acquired World Corporate Golf Challenge. Olukoya said the decision to acquire the rights was to boost Nigeria’s image internationally and to further contribute to the development of golf in the country. The World Corporate Golf Challenge began in the United Kingdom in 1993, with the plan of providing companies a plan that would help enhance relationship both internally and externally. Because of its success in the UK, the concept was rolled out around the world, reaching golf playing countries like Indian, Norway, Malaysia, Sweden, Spain, Italy, New Zealand, Portugal, and Australia amongst others. Few years later, the event berthed in Nigeria and was sponsored then by Econet Corporate Golf Challenge and at one time by Vodacom. It was so popular at the time that one of the national finals was held at Achimota Golf Club in Ghana. When the promoter at the time Habeeb Fasinro left for politics, its fortune dwindled. Now, almost 10 years after it was last played, FGDC has brought WCGC back in a bigger and better way, so says Olukoya. Meanwhile the 2020 world final of WCGC has been scheduled to hold in Cascais, Portugal from July 1st to 5th, 2020. Since its inception 25-years ago, over one million golfers have competed for the chance to represent their companies and country at the world finals. The return of the tournament is another opportunity therefore for companies to showcase themselves and launder the country’s image abroad. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .