By 2021, over 90 percent of enterprises globally would rely on a mix of dedicated private clouds, several public clouds, and legacy platforms to meet their infrastructure needs, telecom expert has predicted.
 
The expert noted that as 5G and edge deployment continue to rollout, organisations will expect more of their cloud and service providers, to ensure they have better data management and visibility, while also ensuring that their data remains accessible and secure.
   
Senior Vice President, MERAT, Dell Technologies, Mohammed Amin, who took a dive into what Year 2020 holds for the Information and Telecommunication (IT) industry, noted that it will be a year to simplify IT.He said 2020 is the year where organisations will accelerate digital transformation by simplifying and automating their IT infrastructure, and consolidating systems and services into holistic solutions that enable more control and fuel data automation.	 
   
All of these, according to him, enable better and faster business outcomes that the innovation of the next decade would thrive on.He said greater investments in reuse and recycling for closed-loop innovation will accelerate hardware becoming smaller and more efficient, and built with recycled and reclaimed goods.
   
Amin, who maintained that 2019 showed that the edge is everywhere, said it is going to expand with enterprise organisations leading the way, delivering the IT infrastructure to support it.
   
“So, we will see new advancements in software-defined networking. Open networking solutions will also prevail over proprietary, as organisations recognise that the only way to successfully manage and secure data for the long haul is with the flexibility and agility that only open software defined networking can deliver.
   
“As we enter 2020, I am optimistic and excited about what the future holds. The steps our customers will take in the next year to get the most out of their data will enable new breakthroughs in technology that everyone will experience in some way – whether it is a more powerful device, faster medical treatment, more accessible education, less waste and cleaner air,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .