Officials of Nigeria Labour Congress, (NLC), Kaduna State Council have embarked on a massive protest against the occupation of the Union’s landed property, stating that all necessary action will be taken to reclaim the uncompleted secretariat from the state government. The Union leaders during the protest along Independence way, called for the intervention of Governor Nasir El—Rufai on the matter to avoid a major labour action in the State. The Union Officials expressed dismay over the trespass on the landed property where the NLC was reconstructing it’s secretariat as well as lamented constant harassment of staff and members, by agents of the contracting firm it engaged. The chairman of the NLC, Kaduna State chapter, Comrade Ayuba Magaji Suleiman; Secretary, Christiana Bawa, and other leaders of the Union decried the illegal occupation of the landed property has now become unbearable. Suleiman said, “The issue of the confusion surrounding NLC landed property at No. 9 Lafia road, kaduna, was exhaustively discussed and resolved that the kaduna
Council should draw the attention of the State government, in particular, the law enforcement agencies and General public to the Illegal activities of some individuals on Its property on the above
address.” “Sometimes in the year 2015, the NLC Kaduna State council engaged a private developer – Sahel Technical Services Ltd, with a view to develop its Land at the said location, 9 Lafia Road, Kaduna”, adding that  
“While these arrangements were being made to Concretize the memorandum of understanding for the project, we got to know that Sahel Technical Services Ltd engaged a third party,TMDK, for the project. This was done clearly without the consent of the Principal party to this project, NLC”. He said, “While effort were being made to sort out some of these emerging issues, we observed the incessant trespassing into the said land and constant harassment of our staff and members by the agents of Sahel and TMDK. Following this unimaginable behaviour of Sahel Technical and TMDK, NLC became uncomfortable about the whole issues. Accordingly, we had cause to write Sahel Technical Services Ltd of our decision to discontinue the project and to vacate the site forthwith.” The union also called on the commissioner of police, DSS, and other law enforcement agencies to joined hands together to secure the property from the trespassers. The NLC Chairman said the union wrote to the Governor, Mallam Nasir El—Rufai since 2018 for a courtesy call on the matter, but waited in vain to see him till date. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .