American football exhibition game in Lagos Acting President of Lagos Marines American Football Club, Babajide Akeredolu, has called on government at all levels and corporate bodies to join hands in ensuring that American football excels in Nigeria. Speaking at the exhibition game held at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) pitch at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, Babajide, who is the son of Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu said that American football had the potentials of taking more Nigerian youths from the street if a well-tailored structure is put in place to create more awareness on the game. Mainland America Football team defeated Islanders America Football team 28-6 at the exhibition game. Akeredolu declared that the Nigeria American Football Association (NAFA), had started putting plans in place to commence the American Football League, stressing that the League would raise Nigeria’s profile as a major sports developing country in the world. “The objective of organising the American Football championship is to bring all American football stakeholders together under one umbrella to begin the quest of assembling a  professional team in 2020 that would represent the country at major championships around the world in the future. “You can see the turn out of people who came to watch the exhibition game. Our target at this point is to start a league and also work towards building American football stadium in Nigeria. This is where NAFA needs sponsors to assist in making the game grow in the country. “We need to set a standard before bringing big teams from America to compete in an international championship.” NAFA also has plans to discover and groom more talents from the grassroots on American football,” he said. Also speaking at the occasion, Ondo State commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Akindotun Olubunmi Owanikan said that Ondo State government would start putting plans in place to develop the game of American football. “The governor of Ondo state, Rotimi Akeredolu is working hard to develop sports. Bringing American Football to Ondo state would help give more youths the alternative to select any sports of their choice. Sports is a big business and youths in Ondo state will be delighted to take part in an international recognised sport like American football,” he declared. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .