Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu (left); Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe-Ibas; Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Gabriel Olonisakin and Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi in a security meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja…yesterday PHOTO: NAN • Air Force Gets New Helicopters Procurements For Northeast Deployments
President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met at a closed door meeting with the heads of the nation’s security agencies at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The meeting came ahead of the takeoff time of the President’s scheduled visit to London later in the day, to participate in the inaugural UK-Africa Investment Summit. The summit itself opens on Monday, January 20. Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Femi Adesina, in a statement on Thursday said that President Buhari is expected back in Nigeria on Thursday, next week. Addressing State House Correspondents after the meeting, Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar said the Chiefs specifically briefed the President on what their services were doing to ensure that the security of Nigerians was not compromised. “You recall that we had a meeting on 30th December, 2019 and today we held another one. The whole essence of the meeting is to critically evaluate what the armed forces of Nigeria as well as other security and intelligence agencies are doing with regard to ensuring that the territorial integrity of Nigeria is not undermined by any individual or group of individuals.” Air Marshal Abubakar said the meeting also looked at the emerging situations including the menace of banditry in some North Western states as well as other parts of the country, saying the Nigeria Air Force was already assembling some of the fighter aircraft recently procured by the Federal Government to prosecute the onslaught against Boko Haram activities in the North East of the country. “What we want to do here is to reassure Nigerians that the armed forces of Nigeria and indeed security and intelligence agencies in Nigeria are going to continue to work round the clock to ensure that our country is secured and to ensure that nobody undermines the territorial integrity and national sovereignty of Nigeria. “We critically looked at everything and we are satisfied with the progress we are making, we are satisfied with the support of the Federal Government is giving the armed forces and other security agencies in terms of procurement of platforms, substantial number of these equipment are expected by the end of February. “Some of the equipment we are acquiring have started arriving for the Nigerian Air Force, two helicopter gunships have arrived on the 15th of January and we are now in the process of putting them together which will add to whatever we have. “We are equally expecting other equipment like I said that are meant for the armed forces of Nigeria which we are hoping to get by the end of February. I am sure you are also familiar with the equipment acquisition by the Nigerian Police Force. “I am sure you are also aware of the policy on Community Policing that was approved by Mr. President and it is going to be funded. The whole idea is to ensure that Nigeria is secured and Nigerians can go about pursuing their legitimate aspirations without any hindrance. “We are going to keep a very close watch on what is going on and with the equipment that we are getting, definitely, the challenges we are facing in some of the theaters of operation, particularly the North East, will be addressed adequately. “We are doing everything with the other sister countries in the Lake Chad Basin, working together to ensure that the Boko Haram terrorism is brought substantially to an end as quickly as possible.” Marshal Abubakar appealed to Nigerians and other stakeholders to join hands with the armed forces of Nigeria and other security and intelligence agencies to ensure that the country was secured, rather than looking at other methods that are likely going to negate the national policy and community policing policy that the Federal Government has approved. “What we expect is for all stakeholders, local governments, state governments, other stakeholders to join hands with us, let us work together to ensure that our country is secured,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .