In commemoration of 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, the Executive  Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has commended past military personnel who have in one way or the other contributed to the peace and development of the country. The state governor pledged to always support ex-service men and families of gallant fallen heroes, who had made sacrifice to secure the country. During the Special Jumat Service at the Lagos State Community Central Mosque, Alausa to mark this year Armed Forces Remembrance Day, Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the Lagos State Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola said, Lagos is using the medium to recognise the services rendered by the departed soldiers, and pray for the nation for peace and development. The Commissioner for Home Affairs, Pharm (Mrs.) Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf said this administration has always been supportive in promoting the welfare of the families of fallen uniformed men. “Lagos State is always supporting the arm forces and we will continue to do that. In the past years, countless support have been rendered to them and I can assure you Mr. Governor have approve lot of things for this year celebration and we will unfold it as the time comes”. Commander 9 Brigade Lagos, Brig Gen MA Etsu-Ndagi said Lagos state government is doing a lot for the corps in terms of equipping the corps members and payment of their allowances. “On the day this administration launch launch 100 days in office, they make some patrol vehicle available to the military which also include motorcycles. They have also been supporting operation mesa by providing ration cash allowance for the troop and they are up-to-date in the provision of the corpse allowance as well”. He urge Lagos State Government to continue to support the force so that they can continue to render their services to them especially in Epe axis where we heard of kidnappers relocating to the area. “We want Lagos state government to support the maritime aspect probably through the marine police so that we will be able to evict those  criminal hiding in the creek in Epe axis. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .