It was a harvest of arrests by the Lagos State police command as its operatives have arrested over 700 suspects in the last two months. Yesterday alone, about 300 suspects, including 100 notorious “One million boys” of Ajegunle were picked in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos. The Lagos Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, during his maiden press briefing held yesterday at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja, said 114 armed robbery suspects were arrested while 72 armed robbery attacks were successfully foiled. Odumosu said seven armed robbery suspects died during exchange of fire with the police. He added that 46 suspects were arrested for cultism while three suspects were arrested for kidnapping and 82 suspects were arrested for murder. He noted that the state recorded nine cases of suicide and 25 assorted firearms with lots of ammunition of different caliber were recovered. “The command also recovered 11 stolen vehicles. A total of 2,300 motorcycles were impounded from recalcitrant commercial motorcyclists across the state between November 18 and December 31, 2019. All the motorcycles impounded were handed over to the taskforce in Oshodi for further action, while the exercise is being intensified. “A total of 447 suspects were arrested over the last one month and taken to taskforce, Oshodi for further action. Out of this number, 53 were warned and released while 394 were charged to court. Out of those charged to court, 296 were convicted, while 98 are still awaiting trial. “383 suspects were arrested in a clampdown on social miscreants. The Special Strike Force on Social Miscreants which I established, took the battle to the doorsteps of social miscreants at Ikorodu, Agege, Itire, Isheri-Oshun and Oshodi. Out of this number, 38 were warned and released while 87 were charged to court and 67 are currently being profiled. “Two locally-made pistols with 30 unexpended cartridges were recovered. Bags of weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and some cutlasses/axes were also recovered from the hoodlums” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .