If there is any state governor that knows the power of federal might and courts it that governor must be the Ebonyi State’s Chief Executive, Mr. David Nweze Umahi. As a politician who began his career as acting state chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Umahi knows the rudiments of doublespeak and is an expert at killing two birds with one pebble.
  
Before his steady rise in politics from chairman of Ebonyi State chapter of PDP, Umahi’s trade as a civil engineering contractor and petroleum distributor made way for him in his home state, where political appointees nominated his firm for jobs from his Port Harcourt base.
  
Serving previously as party chairman and deputy governor under the administration of Chief Martin Elechi, Umahi knew that the power rotation arrangement would favour his Ebonyi South Senatorial District, he started currying the favours of PDP National Working Committee (NWC) members, particularly the then chairman, Alhaji Bamanga Tukur.  Of six or half a dozen
IT was therefore against such lofty background that when recently some PDP stakeholders from two local government areas, Ishielu and Onicha, paid him New Year homage that he warned those planning to join APC to think twice, saying he also has a foothold in the opposition party in his state. Although the governor’s decision to speak in Pidgin English helped to mask the veracity of his disclosure: “If you say you dey there (APC), know I am already there. If you go to APC, I am an APC member. If you go to PDP, I am there.
  
“I am the only person that does anti-party and nothing will happen. Any other person that does anti-party is gone. So, I am representing you in APC while you all stay in PDP. If you like, go and write it on social media.”  He stressed: “When it comes to (the) presidency, we no dey do party. It is the man that will help us to develop this state, that’s the man we will support. But, for the governorship, National Assembly and State Assembly, don’t go there. Nobody will touch it. For the presidency, we will negotiate; we will like the person to discuss with our traditional rulers as stakeholders.”  Backlash
BUT not long after discharging the burden on his conscience by painting the true picture of his ambivalent political stature, the governor has come under severe criticisms.    
  
He might have spoken the truth to damn the consequences, but the implications of his statement have begun to dawn on him and his supporters, which include that even within PDP it would be hard for him to enjoy the confidence of other colleagues.
  
Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, revived the Jekyll and Hyde political disposition of Umahi, when he called him Buhari’s man to the discomfiture of the Ebonyi governor. Coming barely two months after the altercation with Wike over an unusual dalliance with the rival rural party, especially when Wike said some PDP governors visit Aso Rock Villa at night to see Buhari, Umahi’s statement seems to undergird the allegation of serial anti-party activities.
  
But in a swift move to avoid a major rift, the various organs of the party came out to describe the statements attributed to the governor as wrong. First, the Southeast Zonal Chairman of PDP, Mr. Austin Umahi, who is also the governor’s brother, said the alleged defection of the governor was far from the truth.
  
He said it was unthinkable that Umahi would leave PDP for a non-performing political party such as APC, describing the entire story as false and mischief that the general public should disregard. Next in line was the Ebonyi State Government. Speaking through the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Uchenna Orji, who is also Senator Anyim’s ally, the government maintained that Governor Umahi “is still a strong member of PDP and not APC.”
  
While asserting that “it is a commonsense (knowledge) that no one party member in Nigeria can belong to another political party at a time,” Orji maintained that the governor merely rebuked those whose stock in trade was frolicking from one party to another.  There is no doubt that the road to the 2023 election cycle is paved with a lot of bobby traps for the major opposition party. State governors serving their second term have always proved sources of friction, particularly as they struggle to carve out a rosy future for themselves after their stint in office.
  
Was Umahi a candidate for special interest in the ruling APC? What offers have been made to him? Does he see the ruling party as his comfort zone after his succession plan after leaving the office? Could it be that in the Southeast-for-President-2023 agitation, he foresees trouble in PDP and wants to carve out a negotiating space for himself in the ruling party? For now, Umahi alone understands his game! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .