• As Senior Clergy Course Ends The Anglican bishop of Oturkpo and the Assistant Director of Studies of the Church of Nigeria’s Senior Clergy Advanced Management Course, The Rt. Revd David K. Bello has called on the clergy to always practise what they learn in their ministerial formation. Preaching at the Passing out Service for the 2020 session of the Course, Bishop Bello enjoined the graduates, in the words of St Paul (Col. 3:16-17), to let God’s word be in them, as it is wisdom. While urging them to continue learning, he lamented that many clergymen, who acquired formal education fail to apply or transmit their knowledge to others. “They neglect teaching ministry, relegating it to the less educated, when it should be prioritised over preaching ministry,” he said. He also urged them to guard their actions, which speak louder than voice. They should particularly shun arrogance, and resist the temptation to project themselves, instead of Jesus Christ, especially when their ministries begin to flourish. The Course, which held from Monday, January 13 to Friday, January 24, 2020, is the 14th since it started in 2011. It drew about 140 senior Anglican clergymen from across the nation, including the Anglican Diocese of the Trinity, USA. The two-week intensive course, with the theme: “Anglican Pastoral Ministry in the 21st Century,” was organised by a Faculty of four resourceful bishops: Rt. Revd. Dr Samuel O. Sowale (The Bishop of Ilesa -Chairman/Director), Rt. Revd. David K. Bello (Bishop of Otukpo – Assistant Director), Rt. Revd. Dr Samuel K. Eze (Bishop of Ukwa) and Rt. Revd. Dr. Blessing C. Enyindah (Bishop of Ikwerre – Secretary), with Ven. Dr Nnamdi Ik Okpuno (Desk Officer for Training at the Primate’s Office, Abuja). There were also other resource persons comprising bishops, clergy and laity. The Course, which was officially declared Open by the Primate of all Nigeria, Most Revd. Nicholas D. Okoh, represented by the Archbishop of Bendel Province, the Most Revd Dr Friday Imaekhai, through the Rt. Rev. Augustine Ohilebo, started with a Holy Communion Service, celebrated by the Rector of the Ibru Centre, the Ven. Dr Princewill Ireoba and the Centre’s clergy. It featured daily Holy Communion and other services (officiated by the participants), Bible studies, lectures and tutorials, among others, all geared towards equipping the ministers for effective ministry, the Anglican way. The lectures focused mainly on management, covering different areas of management (with Anglican bias), such as Church administration and management, Conflict and Dispute resolutions and management, Financial management, Time management, Office Organisation and management, Human Resources Management, Health management, Goal Setting and Computer Literacy/ICT, among others. The Anglican parishes of Ughelli Diocese, as well as St Peter’s Chapel, Ibru Centre, had the privilege of benefitting from the ministries of the senior clergymen, as they were sent to minister in the churches on Sunday, January 19. The programme ended with a special Closing Service, which featured a final Charge by the Course Director and presentations of Certificates of Participation, signed by the Primate and the Course Co-ordinator to the participants. The participants made some presentations to the Ibru Centre.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .