When it comes to female ejaculation a.k.a squirting, it is a bit confusing for most (including women themselves). There are many myths surrounding squirting and the reason is simple, many don’t know what’s in it. We don’t know why some women can do it, while others can’t. In this article, we would attempt to clear up some popular misconceptions surrounding female ejaculation. Below are some myths surrounding when your partner showers you with her love (all pun intended). Having never experienced squirting in real life, most people only have porn to rely on for their experience with squirting hence it is not real. We may never be able to fully understand the mystery behind squirting but documentation of female ejaculation stems all the way back to the 16th century, and numerous studies since have found that some women do indeed expel fluid during orgasm. So strike out that myth, squirting is real. As stated above, squirting is real but just because it is doesn’t mean all women squirt. A study of 300 participants reported that only seven women self-reported female ejaculation during orgasm. Everyone is different and the body doesn’t go by a template so if your partner doesn’t squirt, don’t make her feel bad about herself. “Everyone is different. The body doesn’t go by a template,” Dr. Shepherd says. Admittedly, there is some pee in female ejaculation but it is not all pee. Squirt is a combination of ejaculatory fluid as well as urinary fluid. The ejaculatory fluid comes from glands on the anterior wall of the vagina known as the Skene’s glands. Urine is present in the fluid because these glands are in close proximity to the urethra. No need to freak out about this considering exposure to female ejaculate carries no health risks and dudes also have a little urine in their pre-cum. Squirting is the same as an orgasm Although squirting and orgasm often happen in tandem, they aren’t always one and the same. Sometimes women will squirt without having an orgasm; sometimes, they’ll squirt while coming, and sometimes they’ll squirt after they get off when they’re feeling more relaxed. If you watch a lot of porn, you’ve probably seen a woman’s vagina spout like a geyser. That’s likely the result of porn stars using douches prior to shooting a scene. While some women do squirt a lot, others dribble, while some make puddles that look like they wet the bed. That’s why you probably shouldn’t expect your partner to gush the second you thrust two fingers inside her.