Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State has adopted monitoring mechanisms for commissioners Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) for effective service deliveries and performances. According to him, this year’s budget is a road map to achieve budgetary targets on accountability and transparency to the people. Buni spoke Tuesday, at the first 2020 inaugural State Executive Council (SEC) meeting held at Government House, Damaturu. He said the 20 commissioners should always consider the weighty expectations and obligations to serve the people with ‘dignity and honour.’ His words: “I expect all council members to hit the ground running with the kind of service delivery that will make all our people proud. This is to ensure cabinet members are always on their toes and delivering on their respective mandates of MDAs. “I have instituted monitoring mechanisms that would track performances across the 20 ministries and their commissioners to be assessed accordingly.” He said that the administration is anchored on continuity, consolidation and innovation in the implementation of 2020 budget. He said this year’s budget is a three-track approach that carries on with people-oriented programmes of previous administration, adding that scientific approaches to governance have been adopted with the best practices of efficient and quality services deliveries. While reviewing last year’s budget, he said: “We have continued with the Yobe International Cargo Airport Project and other road projects we met on ground. “We have gone ahead to break new grounds in service delivery to our people, including the construction of new township roads in Buni-Yadi, Babbangida, Damagum, and Jajimaji towns.” He added that dormant government-owned industries were also resuscitated, including Yobe Flour and Feed Mills, Aluminium Company and the Woven Sacks Factory. According to him, significant progresses have been made on the construction of Damaturu ultra-modern first market. “We have also worked to improve our contacts and partnerships across sectors and domains, including Federal Government and development partners,” he said, noting that there are increasing interests of participation by UN and Non-Governmental agencies to develop the state. He said the security situation has improved with the continuous partnership of military and other security agencies.
According to him, the people have supported the military in counter-insurgency operations in the state. “The tasks that lie ahead and the challenges we must meet together as a team, let me say that I am proud of the quality of talent in this cabinet. “The knowledge and experience you will bring to shape our policies and programmes must, make this government to be effective and efficient,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .