Nigeria’s leading financial institution, Fidelity Bank Plc, hosted its customers in a captivating and thrilling musical event over the weekend at the expansive expo Hall of the Eko Hotels and Suites. The event tagged “Give Them Wings” and hosted by Henshaw Kate and Ebuka was star-studded and both the staffs and customers of the bank were thrilled to delightful music, their hair stood on end and they tipped over in merriment – their joy spilling from their souls into the air. “The reason we are saying this year’s celebration is “Give Them Wings”, We are symbolising how Fidelity has been supporting people who otherwise will have no opportunity,” Fidelity Bank CEO, Nnamdi Okonkwo said. The event witnessed some award presentations and scholarships to a few persons to drive home the year’s theme. Tim Godfrey set the party rolling with his performance and notably his rendition of popular American singer-songwriter R-Kelly’s “I believe I can fly” gave the audience the best reception and understanding of what the night was about. The Kate Henshaw and Ebuke Obi-Unchendu party also saw the likes of Kcee, Niniola and Flavour performing. The bank CEO noted that the bank moved from “strength to strength” while listing a number of awards the bank got in 2019. Fidelity Bank Plc. won the ‘Best Digital Networking Bank For Entrepreneurs, Africa 2019’ at 2019 PWM Wealth Tech Awards held in London, United Kingdom (UK). Fidelity Bank won the second position award on Sustainable Agricultural Transaction for its compliance with the sustainable banking and also moved up four places to reach second on the 2019 Nigeria Banking Industry Customer Experience Survey, recently published by the renowned audit and consultancy firm, KPMG. The event was not about the bank and its customer as it recognised persons which it said represented the spirit of Fidelity Bank. Such persons included Michael Showunmi, a physically-challenged man who was given employment by Fidelity Bank. A staff of the bank Adebayo Ogunbiyi was also given an award for achieving the highest KPI score for the year 2019. The event was witnessed by policymakers, captains of industry, bankers and celebrities including Africa’s richest man Aliko Dangote, Zenith Bank’s Jim Ovia, minister of transportation Rotimi Amaechi.