• Receives C’River Electoral Materials From CBN
• Police Place Restriction Order In Kano
• Imo CP Warns Miscreants, ADC The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said that 1,005 personnel have been deployed to Akwa Ibom State for the re-run election today in the 159 polling units and 219 voting points in Essien Udim Council. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mike Igini, disclosed this yesterday while addressing officials deployed to Essien Udim for the re-run. He warned the officials against negating the core values of the Commission today’s supplementary election. Igini noted the Commission’s core values as ensuring integrity, transparency and fair play in the discharge of its functions as contained in the Electoral Act.
 
He told the officials, including National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members recruited for the exercise that the Commission had confidence in them to do what is right and approved, stressing that nothing less was expected from them as they set out for exercise. The police added that security would be provided during and after the poll to ensure a hitch-free process. Also, INEC has received sensitive materials ahead of today’s re-run in Yakurr/Abi Federal Constituency and Abi State Constituency of Cross River State. Branch Controller of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Calabar, Mr. Chuks Sokari, handed over of the materials to INEC officials, including the National Commissioner, Dr. Mohammed Lekki, yesterday at the CBN office, Calabar. The election petition tribunal in September last year had called for re-run elections for the affected areas. The new REC, Dr. Johnson Alalibo, said: “I am very much satisfied with what I have seen. The CBN has been able to hand over the sensitive materials to INEC. And I am here with the national commissioner to receive them.” In Kano State, the police have vowed to deal ruthlessly with any person or group that attempted to create violence during the re-run, as restriction order has been placed on the human and vehicular moments in Tudun Wada/Doguwa, Kiru/Bebeji and Kumbotso federal constituencies where the exercise will take place. The spokesperson, DSP Abdullahi Haruna, said movement of persons and vehicles today had been restricted between 8 am and 4 pm in the areas where the election will take place. Meanwhile, Imo State Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Fafowora, has warned miscreants not to disrupt the supplementary election in the state today. He noted that the police would enforce the restriction of human and vehicular movement from 8 am to 4 pm in the areas the court had ordered supplementary polls. In a statement, yesterday by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Orlando Ikeokwu, the police chief urged residents of the areas to obey the rules and stay away from trouble. The statement added: “All local security outfits like Imo Security Watch, Imo Civil Guard, etc are not allowed to operate in the affected areas on the election day. “All VIPs/political office holders are not allowed to move with their security aides on the election day. All security aides to VIPs are directed to report to the nearest Divisional Police Officer or Area Commander within their area of responsibility, as anyone caught either in uniform or mufti would be arrested and made to face appropriate disciplinary actions.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .