The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Danbatta has urged the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (NIEEE), to rise up and play a major role in the emerging technologies such as Blockchain Technology, Internet of Things, Artificial Intelligence, Cloud Computing and the Big Data. Speaking at the Investiture of Kings Adeyemi, as the 19th National Chairman of NIEEE in Abuja, Danbatta observed that the telecommunications and the ICT industry in general are fast changing, and continuous professional development is needed to keep abreast with the changes in the industry. Dambatta noted that in NCC, electrical and electronics engineers play crucial roles in the delivery of the Commission’s regulatory mandates in the areas of frequency spectrum administration and management, setting technical standards, carrying out devices type approvals. According to him, the engineers help in creating technical frameworks for the telecom industry, taking into cognisance evolving technologies and operational models, carrying out devices type approval, and carrying out monitoring activities amongst others. Danbatta, who was represented by the Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity, Bako Wakil, recalled that NCC had afforded Adeyemi the opportunity to attend several training both locally and internationally over the years. He equally expressed the hope that part of the skill and knowledge he had acquired in the course of his duty at the Commission will be brought to bear in advancing NIEEE into a better future. He assured that the Commission will partner with NIEEE in telecoms-related programmes, as professionalism is one of its core values. In his presentation, the guest speaker and a UK-based University Lecturer, Dr Mohammed Ngala, urged members of NIEEE to continue to update their skills and competencies in order to remain relevant considering the pace in technological advancement. He observed that in the fast pace engineering profession, it is now essential to have digital skills to be able to function effectively at the work place, increase productivity, and ensure career progression. Ngala called for a review of curricular in order to develop, position, and prepare young people to have inquisitive mind for creativity and innovation as part of their basic education. Adeyemi on his part, promised to build on the foundation laid by his predecessors to take the profession to an enviable height.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .