 Acting president of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) Olamide George. Photo: BSNSPORTS  George, who just returned from the United States, where he held discussions with some top Nigerian athletes, including hurdler, Tobi Amusan told The Guardian yesterday that the AFN would try as much as possible to avoid mistakes of the past. None of Nigerian relay teams has made the standard for the Olympics, but according to the AFN boss, everything is being done to secure the tickets. “This is an Olympics year, and we are doing everything possible to see how we can give our athletes the best of preparation,” he said. “I spent some weeks in the U.S. and I was able to discuss with some Meets organisers in Florida and Texas on how to go about securing qualification tickets for our relay teams.” He further stated there are discussions with some Meets Organisers for a good training camp in central Europe ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. George revealed that the AFN would hold its first board meeting in Abuja next week saying: “We will use the opportunity to set up our Technical Committee and the Sponsorship and Marketing Committee. We will also receive the report of the panel we set last year to investigate the suspended president Ibrahim Gusau.” According to George, Ekiti state would host the All-Comers event soon. “We will announce the date for the All-Comers event during the board meeting in Abuja next week,” George stated. Speaking further, George said: “What the AFN will be providing henceforth is the administrative and technical leadership to make our elite athletes perform at their optimal best. That will also help to discover and nurture more talents into the limelight.” “We are lucky to have a Sports Minister (Sunday Dare) who understands the business of sports and what is required for its development. We are very grateful for the steps he has taken so far, particularly the adoption programme, which has been the best thing that has happened to our athletes in the last 20 years. Now our athletes will not be talking about lack of support from Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .