An Ebute Meta Magistrate’s Court in Lagos yesterday remanded a 25-year-old man, who operates a motorcycle, Babatunde Azeez, for allegedly defiling an eight-year-old girl. Azeez, who pleaded not guilty to the charges, was brought on two counts of indecent assault and defilement. The Chief Magistrate, Mr. O.O. Olatunji, ordered that the defendant be kept at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre, pending when the case would be filed at the sexual and special offences court, Ikeja. Earlier, the prosecutor, Insp. Chinalu Uwadione, told the court that the motorcyclist committed the offences at Canal View Drive, Ago, Okota, Lagos. He alleged that the defendant defiled the girl when her guardian stepped out and left her alone at home. According to him, the offences contravene sections 137 and 263 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The magistrate adjourned the case until February 2 for mention. Also, an Ikeja Chief Magistrates’ Court yesterday remanded a 56-year-old trader, Matthew Njoku, for allegedly defiling his neighbour’s two daughters, aged 13 and 11. The Magistrate, Mrs. B.O. Osunsanmi, who did not take the plea of the defendant, ordered that he should be kept at the Kirikiri Custodial Centre, pending advice of the state Director of Public Prosecutions. Osunsanmi adjourned the case until February 2 for mention. Njoku, who lives at Ketu, Lagos, allegedly committed the defilement in December 2019 at his residence. The Prosecutor, ASP Ezekiel Ayorinde, told the court that the defendant had sexual intercourse with the underage daughters. “The parents of the girls got a tip-off from a neighbour that the defendant always had carnal knowledge of their daughters in their absence. The parents interrogated their daughters and they told them how the defendant always called them into his room and had sex with them after which he would give them money and ask them to tell no one,” he said. Ayorinde said the parents of the girls reported the case to the police, resulting in the arrest of the defendant. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .