Sean Diddy Combs | Image: Grammy Sean “Diddy” Combs called out the Recording Academy, the body responsible for the Grammy Awards at the annual Clive Davis Pre-Grammy Gala on Saturday night saying that hip-hop and black music have “never been respected by the Grammys”. Diddy in an ironic moment made the statement as he accepted his award as the 2020 Grammy Salute to Industry Icons honoree at the Beverly Hilton hotel in Los Angeles. “So I say this with love to the Grammys, because you really need to know this, every year y’all be killing us man. Man, I’m talking about the pain. I’m speaking for all these artists here, the producers, the executives. The amount of time it takes to make these records, to pour your heart into it, and you just want an even playing field. “In the great words of Erykah Badu, ‘We are artists and we are sensitive about our sh-t.’ We are passionate. For most of us, this is all we got. This is our only hope.” Diddy continued. “Truth be told, hip-hop has never been respected by the Grammys. Black music has never been respected by the Grammys to the point that it should be.” Diddy also referenced the controversies that has rocked the Grammys in the past few days. Recently-ousted Grammy CEO, Deborah Dugan released a complaint file which claimed that the awards are rigged amongst other accusations. “So right now with this current situation, it’s not a revelation. This thing been going on, and it’s not just going on in music, it’s going on in film, it’s going on in sports, it’s going around the word. And for years we’ve allowed institutions that have never had our best interest at heart to judge us. And that stops right now.” Diddy dedicated the prize to classic albums that didn’t win the top Grammy Award: Michael Jackson’s “Off the Wall,” Prince’s “1999,” Beyoncé‘s “Lemonade,” Missy Elliott’s “Da Real World,” Snoop Dogg’s “Doggystyle,” Kanye West’s “Graduation” and Nas’ “Illmatic.” Sean “Diddy” Combs, rapper and founder of Bad Boy Records, is a three-time Grammy winner.