Members of Take It Back Movement, also known as ‘Revolution Now’, have issued a seven-day ultimatum to the Federal Government to drop charges against the founder of the movement, Mr. Omoyele Sowore, Olawale Adebayo Bakare Agba Jalingo and fiver other activists that were arrested for staging protests in some parts of the country last year. The group also called for a referendum, saying that the current constitution of Nigeria is fraudulent and not people-oriented.The Acting Co-ordinator of the Movement, Mr. Ola-Oluwa Owoeye, while addressing a press conference at the Osun State NUJ Correspondents’ Chapel in Osogbo yesterday, asked the Presidency to desist from manipulating the Judiciary in the trial of the activists. Owoeye implored the Federal Government to drop charges instituted at an Osogbo Magistrate’s Court against five young activists in Osun State, saying that the charges slammed on Sowore and others were trumped up. He said: “It is a tragedy that a country that has overtaken India, as the world’s poverty capital, is still very committed to keeping the most expensive legislature in the world while over 87 million Nigerians wallow in extreme poverty. The bulk of our national wealth feeding the greedy few while the needs of citizens for decent life is largely ignored. “There is no gainsaying that the present day government has failed the people of Nigeria in terms of provision of basic necessities of life, such as security, employment opportunities, sound health facilities, working economic plans, qualitative education and end to systemic corruption.“In this view, it is crystal obvious that unless the body of the masses revolt with massive resistance, these agents of political and economic misfortune will continue to milk us dry and live on our national wealth at the expense of our future and generation unborn.” “On this note, we give the government a seven-day ultimatum to reverse all anti-people’s policies and laws that have over the years held the people hostage and with immediate effect and with obvious commitment, commence the implementation of the highlighted revolutionary demands.“We want the government to release all prisoners of conscience and respect rule of law and the inalienable fundamental human rights, and desist from manipulating the judiciary to justify their illegal subjugation.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .