Experts have called on Nigerians to embrace Bitcoin irrespective of government resistance, as the system would help eradicate poverty. They noted that the system provides a platform to curb corruption because every transaction is accounted for in the block chain. They made this call during the opening of The Billion Cion (TBC) office in Bariga, Lagos. Manager, TBC, Nigeria, Solo Amanotu, said, “The Billion Coin is derived from the envisage of one billion total human membership of that private contract society called The Billion Coin (TBC). TBC is, therefore, a special crypto currency of its kind, because it is purely private and not public like other crypto currency worldwide. “By the time TBC reaches it maturity (one billion verified members) it will have created 1.1billionaires who will then undertake their assignment of employing the 4billions unemployed of the world,” he added. He explained that new members of the system receive a gift of TBC ‘krinkle’ worth over $2,500, and an account grows through reward given after attending tutorials and the currency can be transacted with. According to Amanotu, TBC operates its own structure and formula, which depends on the total number of users for its growth and value. “The value of TBC increases by 1-5 per cent daily, meaning your investment appreciates by 1-5 per cent daily. TBC is not in coin marketcap because it is a decentralised, abundance-based crypto currency and not a centralised, market-based crypto currency,” he added. Coordinator, TBC, Ogun State, Amayowa Adebiyi, said TBC is the only way to create a parallel economy, as it is a private pair to pair society, which makes it impossible to be bought over by a financial institution. According to him, one needs just a smart phone and an email to join the system, adding that it allows for wallet-to-wallet transaction. “TBC uses ‘anthropic’ value instead of market value. That’s why it’s on no exchange and its price can function as desired,” he explained. “Every thing in this office was purchased through TBC. We have some merchants in the group that require you pay a certain percentage as krinkle and as cash to buy their products,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .