For peace, harmony and development in Boki Council of Cross River State, Boje Community Association (BCA) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to order the immediate return of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to Boki. BCA made the call yesterday in a statement read by the chairman, Charles Nkembre, to journalists in Calabar, adding that the establishment of a barrack would bring peace and harmony back to the communities While commending the president for taking steps to put the lingering communal crises in Boki under control, the association aligned with the motion moved by Senator Sandy Onor (Cross Ricer Central) requesting the establishment of Mobile Barrack in Boje, the headquarters of Boki. “It is our prayer that as we await the implementation of the above, the DPO of Boki should immediately return to Boje where he is expected to operate from constitutionally. The CP may kindly enforce this as an interested party in the interest of stability, peace and prosperity of Boki,” the statement read in part. Describing itself as concerned stakeholders of Boki nation, the association said it was regrettable that council chairmen had not seen the need to live and work in Boje, but ran the council in their cars and private residences. According to Nkembre, this has denied the council and Boki as a whole effective council administration. He also called on the governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, to consider the plight of Boje as the council headquarters and provide electricity, water and good road network. He called on sister communities of Nsadop and Iso-Bendege that were dragging boundaries with the community to seek peace and mutual interest of the Boki nation. “There should be a deliberate action by both local and state governments to urgently monitor and implement the delineation of all boundaries on disputed areas as agreed with Iso-Bendege. For our sister community of Nsadop, we have agreed to abide by the Court of Appeal ruling on our disputed boundaries. We appeal to Nsadop to obtain the interpretation of this judgement for our mutual interest and coexistence,” Nkembre appealed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .