The car Tupac was shot in  | Image: Celebrity Cars Las Vegas/SWNS The BMW car that Tupac Amaru Shakur was shot dead in is up for sale at $1.7 million (₦614,550,000). According to Las Vegas dealership Celebrity Cars’ latest listing, the BMW 750Li is the same car that the legendary rap artist was riding in at the time of the shooting in 1996. The BMW 750iL was listed for $1.5 million several years ago, but the dealership suggests, it was never sold. Celebrity Cars states the car has been completely renovated “to the condition it was in before” Tupac was killed—with exception to a small dent that the company believes was made by a bullet on the night of Pac’s assassination. In addition to the renovations, the dealership has also installed the original tires that were on the BMW at the time of the murder. Outside of that, the vehicle is in excellent condition and is drivable with around 121,043 miles already on it. The buyer who acquires the car will be provided with documentation of authenticity. The scene of the crime after the assassination of Tupac Shakur in 1996. | Image: The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Tupac Amaru Shakur whose birth name is Lesane Parish Crooks was shot on the night of September 1996. Tupac was riding in the passenger seat of the BMW with Death Row Records CEO Suge Knight when the pair stopped at a stoplight. A white, four-door, late-model Cadillac with unknown occupants pulled up to the right side of Shakur’s car and someone inside rapidly fired gunshots at Shakur. He was hit four times, twice in the chest, once in the arm, and once in the thigh. One of the bullets went into Shakur’s right lung. While in the intensive-care unit, on the afternoon of September 13, 1996, Shakur died from internal bleeding. He is considered by many as one of the most significant rappers of all time. Much of Shakur’s work has been noted for addressing contemporary social issues that plagued inner cities, and he is considered a symbol of resistance and activism against inequality.