 Spain’s Rafael Nadal celebrates after victory against Australia’s Nick Kyrgios during their men’s singles match on day eight of the Australian Open tennis tournament in Melbourne on January 27, 2020. (Photo by William WEST / AFP)  Nadal opened serving and took the first game of the first set. Kyrgios leveled quickly but lost the fourth game despite his early tally of 3 aces. Nadal stretched the lead to 4-1 but Nick rained down two aces to take the sixth game. Nadal won the seventh game at love while Nick overcame 0-15 start to win four consecutive points for the eighth game. Serving for the set, Nadal opened with an ace and took the game and set without dropping a point.In the first game of the second set, Nick saved a break point to deuce with an ace. However, he required a third advantage to lead 1-0. The games progressed with server until Nadal conceded a break in the fourth game. Although Nadal won the sixth game to reduce the tally, Kyrgios proceeded to win the set 6/3. Nadal won the ninth game of the third set and Kyrgios recovered from 15-30 to win the game on his 17th ace, for 5 games apiece. Nadal again shot ahead 6-5. Needing to stay in the set, Kyrgios prevailed in a long rally to level 30-30 and was taken to deuce thrice before winning the twelfth game. Nadal took one of Nick’s service points to lead 4-2 at changeover but he was tied at five points apiece. Both players conceded a mini-break for 6-all tally. After the second changeover, Nadal held serve to reach set point and took his opponent’s service point for the set. Nadal broke Nicks’ service game for a break to lead 3-2 in the fourth set and held his service to clinch the sixth game but Nick delivered his 22nd ace to reduce the tally 3-4. Nadal extended the lead to 5-3 but Nick hammered his 22nd and 24th aces to reduce the gap to 5-4. Serving for the match, Nadal fell behind 15-40 and did not recover but conceded the break. With the lifeline granted him, Nick too the eleventh game after erasing two break threats. Nadal hammered his 10th ace and held at love for 6 games apiece. Nick lost the first point on serve but leveled 1-all and each player had three points at changeover. Nadal delivered an ace to take the seventh point and took one of his opponent’s service points to lead 5-4. He then took his two service points to with the tie break 7-4 for the match victory. Former Australian Open champion Stan Wawrinka of Poland stunned the fourth-seeded Daniil Medvedev of Russia 6/2; 2/6; 4/6; 7/6(2); 6/2. Stan hammered three aces to clinch the last game of the fifth set 6/2 and will face Germany’s Alexander Zverev in the quarter-finals. Austria’s Dominic Thiem, the fifth seed, had a quick outing as he overpowered Frenchman Gael Monfils 6/2; 6/4; 6/4 while Germany’s Alexander Zverev, the seventh seed, dismissed Russia’s Andre Rublev 6/4;/6/4; 6/4.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .