Experts have expressed fear on the bubble that may arise in the banking sector, should government fail to provide a favourable business environment that would boost performance in the real sector and sustain economic growth.
   
This is because the decision by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to increase banks Loan-to-Deposit Ratio (LDR) to 65 percent last year, to improve lending to the real sector has pulled a large chunk of money from the bank.
   
Consequently, they argued that the government’s inability to provide an enabling environment that would boost operations of companies under the real sector and improve their profits would ultimately shore up bank’s Non-Performing Loans (NPLs), and erode their profitability.  Access Bank Plc also reported a significantly improved performance for the nine months, reflecting the positive impact of its merger with former Diamond Bank Plc.
 
The bank posted a growth of 44 per cent in profit after tax (PAT) to N90.7 billion in 2019, up from N62.9 billion in the corresponding period of 2018.
 
The Chief Research Officer of Investdata Consulting, Ambrose Omodion, admitted that the banks have performed well in the current financial year.
   
He however expressed fear on the state of the banks, if current growth in the economy is not sustained after dividend payment, even with banks’ recapitalisation that is in the pipeline.
 
“My fear is that after dividend payment and the economy does not improve, the banks may run into problems. This is because banks have borrowed a lot to the private sector.
 
“If the private sector did not excel in their businesses to pay up, many banks’ NPLs will increase, and if this happens, even with the forthcoming recapitalisation, many investors may not patronise the banks in the exercise unless they cushion the effect of the NPLs.”
   
The President of Ibadan Zone Shareholders Association said the best way to maintain the tempo is for the government to continue creating an enabling environment for companies to thrive so that loan facilities from banks will be well utilised.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .