Management of Joseph Ayo Babalola University (JABU), Ikeji-Arakeji, Osun State, has iterated its commitment to educational development, leveraging on technopreneurship to boost its entrepreneurship drive. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Kola Sonaike, who stated this at a briefing to announce the 10th convocation of the school, said, 528 graduands from the six colleges of the school would tomorrow receive various degree certificates for successfully completing their degree programmes in various disciplines. He stressed that technopreneurship, which is a new drive for global development, would complement the entrepreneurship success stories of the institution and help it to maximise it’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) objectives. “JABU has been known for its quality and best teaching pedagogy. We are determined to ensure continuous improvement in the quality of our academic programmes for the production of highly qualified and skilled graduates,” he said. Sonaike noted that JABU graduates, trained to be self-reliant and job creators, benefitted from the unparalleled entrepreneurship drive of the university through 21st century ICT innovations. He revealed that there are “501 first degrees among whom 19 have secured first-class honours, 175-second class upper, 225-second class lower and 82 third class grades; seven postgraduate diplomas and 20 masters degrees. “The Department of Computer Science produced the best graduating student in the university with a CGPA of 4.80. His name is Joseph Joshua Temitope.” He also mentioned that six eminent Nigerians: the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Governors of Osun and Oyo states: Adegboyega Oyetola and Seyi Makinde; Speaker of Lagos State Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, would be conferred honourary degrees. Others are the Managing Director of Novas Company Ltd, Mrs A. Samson and the Chairman and CEO of Chemstar Group of Companies, Lagos, Mr. Emmanuel Aderemi Awode. “They have actively engaged themselves in the pursuit of service for the global community and humanity, and have contributed to the development and growth of our country,” he said. He added that there would be a convocation lecture, would be delivered today by the Vice-Chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University, Oyo, Prof. Dapo Asaju, saying it would be followed by alumni and chancellor receptions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .