Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State “abysmal failure” for allegedly not delivering the dividends of democracy to the people. The opposition party, however, urged its members not to be deterred by those who defected to the APC in the state. Stating this at a rally in Owan Council on Saturday, Chairman of Edo PDP, Dan Orbih, noted that those who left the party did so in confusion because they were not accepted in their new home. “I want to use this opportunity to clear some issues that I know are bothering you. Today, I can safely say that those few people who left us for APC are now in political purgatory; they are neither in hell nor in heaven. They are neither in PDP nor in APC,” he said. Orbih appealed to party members and the electorate to make the right decision in the forthcoming governorship election by choosing a PDP candidate “because of the abysmal failure of the APC-led government in almost all sectors of the economy in the state.” He faulted the alleged attempt of APC leaders in the state to dissociate themselves from the failures of the APC government, urging the party should admit its failure. “They admitted that the APC government in Edo State has failed, but they now want to situate it on the personality of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Who brought Obaseki, Adams Oshiomhole; can we separate Obaseki from Oshiomhole? No. So it is clear that APC in Edo has failed. In their failure, they must admit and accept that their time is up,” he added. Chairman of Edo North PDP Leaders Forum, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, urged the people of Owan West to eschew bitterness of the past and work together. “Let us forget about what happened in the past and work together so that our children can enjoy what we labour for. We need to forgive ourselves in whatever way we might have offended ourselves because there is a better tomorrow,” the media guru said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .