Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai (third right), with soldiers fighting Boko Haram terrorists on Limankara hills, Borno State. Zulum orders rebuilding of 750 houses for returnee IDPs
Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, has climbed the rugged Limankara hills to boost the moral of the troops fighting Boko Haram terrorists. The decade-long terrorism has claimed many lives and property in the North East states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe. He said climbing the hill along with troops, was part of the army’s “exceptional operational visits” to insurgency-affected areas in Borno. The visit, he added, will boost the morale of soldiers and strengthen the fight against insurgents and terrorism in the region. After descending from hill tops, Buratai visited the police training at Limankara and 144 Task Force Battalion in Madagali, while proceeding to Gwoza for the historic Nigerian Army Social Activities (WASA) and Medal Parade 2019. According to him, the college is one of the critical institutions overrun by Boko Haram at the peak of their nefarious activities in Borno in August 2014. The border village with Adamawa and Gwoza township was under the control of the terrorists for three months, before the military re-captured it in 2016. Buratai was also on his way to Gwoza from 23 Brigade Yola, where he commissioned some projects as part of his operational visit to the theatre of war. During the two-day visit, it was noted that normalcy had returned to the town, with residents chanting in excitement. The rebuilding works at the college have reached advanced stages. Buratai was conducted round the college by police officers. The WASA and Medal Parade 2019 were successfully conducted in Gwoza on December 30, 2019. Meanwhile, Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum has ordered the rebuilding of 750 houses for the return of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) to Ngoshe and Pulka communities in Gwoza council area. Ngoshe and Gwoza towns were severally attacked by Boko Haram before the military liberated them last year. Gwoza, the council headquarters, was the caliphate of Boko Haram in August 2014. At the commissioning of water and health projects at Pulka, the governor said that 55,000 bags and cartons of food items were distributed to over 16,000 IDPs in camps. He said the North East Development Commission (NEDC) provided the food items. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .