Election of All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Dr. Alex Egbona, to represent Abi \Yakurr Federal Constituency in Cross River State has thrilled former Senate Leader, Victor Ndoma-Egba, and the party. Egbona last Saturday defeated former House of Assembly speaker, John Gaul-Labo, by 29,716 to 26,039 votes in the Ekureku re-run election to become the only APC lawmaker in the state. “I am particularly elated about this victory. This is more so that you are the only elected official produced by our party, the APC, in Cross River State. “That places on you a special mention in our political history. It also puts a special and enormous responsibility on you to be an integral part of all genuine efforts to reposition our party in Cross River for greater outcome,” Ndoma-Egba said. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who represented Cross River Central in the red chamber, described the victory as a clear validation of Egbona’s leadership capabilities and acceptance by his constituents. His words, “Your people of Ekureku especially have demonstrated that indeed power resides with the people by overwhelmingly voting for you leading to your victory “I have no doubt in my mind that you are capable of delivering on the expectations of your constituents as you re-take your seat in the House of Representatives. You possess the passion, experience, disposition and sagacity to satisfactorily represent the good people of Yakurr/Abi Federal Constituency.” He charged Egbona to go to Abuja and shine for not just the people of the Yakurr/Abi but Cross River at large. Similarly, the publicity secretary of the party, Mr. Bassey Ita, said, “The victory of Alex Egbona is a victory for all members of APC in the state. “Let us all rally round and give him the necessary support as a united family to ensure he succeeds in his duty as a lawmaker for APC and the entire Cross River State. We are just excited and thrilled because he is a good man.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .