Senator Magnus Abe Leaders of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, especially those loyal to Senator Magnus Abe, have called for peace and unity in the party. In a communiqué issued at the end of their yearly meeting held in the various councils of the state, they expressed worry over the division in the state chapter of the party, especially during the 2019 general elections. They observed that the continuous political wrangling among party members brought serious setback to the party, especially with no APC member holding any elective position in the state. The communiqué signed by the Media and Publicity Secretary of the party, Sam Oburu, noted that the party in the state would have participated in the general election, if the state and national leaders had followed the right steps during the congresses. The stakeholders, however, called for concerted efforts in the reformation of the party and the propagation of the principles of internal democracy, which, according to them, forms a critical part of the ideals of the party. “We recognise the challenges occasioned by the non-participation of the party in the last general elections, which made it impossible for the party to hold any elective position in the state. The situation has not affected the massive support and patronage the party enjoys at the grassroots. “The APC in the state is in solidarity with thousands of members of the party who went to court to claim their rights to participate in a free, fair and credible congress enforced and stood firmly to the judgement of the Supreme Court on the matter, which asked the party to revert to the status quo. “The stakeholders, therefore, vehemently condemn in very strong and unequivocal terms the seemingly unending political feuds that have bedevilled and characterised the party in the state owing to the unchecked absolution and undemocratic practices exhibited by a supposed leadership of the party in the state,” the communiqué read in part. Also, they frowned on what they described as impunity and lack of respect for the rule of law by the leadership. They added, “The ideals and principles of transparent internal democratic process were put to test in Bayelsa State where the APC was in opposition and it produced result.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .