• Arewa leaders, Fani-Kayode condemn killing of Adamawa CAN chairman, Southern Kaduna carnage
• Again, Balarabe replies Soyinka, S’West leaders on Amotekun Operatives of the Kaduna State Police command have confirmed that they rescued 11 kidnapped victims at Mararaban Jos, saying the victims were freed during a gun battle with the gunmen in which some bandits were killed. In a statement, the Kaduna State Police Command said in it effort to curtail banditry, kidnapping and other violent crimes, it succeeded in foiling a kidnapping incidence, shot some suspected bandits and rescued the 11 victims unhurt. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Yakubu Sabo, said, “On Wednesday, January 22, 2020 at 12:30pm, the command received a distress call from DPO Mararraban Jos that some armed bandits blocked the Kaduna-Zaria express highway and abducted eight persons on their way from Kano to Abuja.” The names of the abducted passengers were given as Aisha Umar, Samira Ibrahim Dakata,  Safiya Idris,  Hauwa Aliyu, Aisha Yakubu, Ma’aru Adam, Safiya Audu and Yahaya Bello. Sabo said on receiving the information, the command mobilised operatives with some Armored Personnel Carrier (APCs) vehicles to the area, engaged the attackers, shot two of the bandits and rescued the eight victims unhurt while other bandits escaped with bullet wounds. Besides, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has condemned the gruesome murder of the Adamawa State Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Reverend Lawan Andimi by Boko Haram terrorists. The ACF lamented that the killing of the cleric was barbaric and should be condemned by all Nigerians. In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, it regretted that while the Adamawa State Government was making efforts to rescue him, the kidnappers murdered him. “This dastardly act of the abductors was barbaric, despicable and should be condemned by all peace loving Nigerians,” he said. Relatedly, a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode yesterday, lamented that entire country and the Government under President Muhammadu Buhari have turned their backs against the plight of the Southern Kaduna people, even as herdsmen and armed bandits continue to ravage their communities. He told the newly elected President of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), Jonathan Asake and the other officials who visited him at his Abuja residence, that it was unfortunate that despite the attacks and killings of Southern Kaduna people, the Federal Government was yet to find a solution to the menace. Meanwhile, former governor of Kaduna State, Alhaji Balarabe Musa has said that those who are criticising his opposition of the creation Operation Amotekun were not committed to a united Nigeria. Musa, who responded to comments by Professor Wole Soyinka and other South West leaders, pointed out that it was clear that supporters of Amotekun were fanning embers of division instead of fighting for a united Nigeria. He was reacting to the attack from South West leaders against his criticism of Amotekun, saying, “I am still stand by my position on Amotekun and those who disagree with me are intellectually and socially undisciplined and their commitment to a united Nigeria is doubtful.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .