The recently sacked Imo State governor, Emeka Ihedioha, declared, yesterday, that the Supreme Court’s verdict has put the electoral process, the judiciary and democracy on trial. He believed the way the controversy generated by the verdict is addressed would redefine democracy in Nigeria. Speaking during a solidarity visit by members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Working Committee to his residence, Ihedioha said the issue at stake was Nigeria’s future and that of democracy. He said: “We are as shocked as yourselves, as it was never anticipated. All legal pundits and democratic watchers never imagined and anticipated it. So, for us, it remains a mystery. But we take solace in the Book of Ecclesiastics 3:1, that for everything, there is a season and time for every purpose under the heaven. I am certain that the judiciary and electoral system are well aware that they are on trial. “It is not about Emeka Ihedioha, it is not about Imo State. It is about tomorrow. Do you go into an electoral process without having an idea? It has to be resolved one way or the other. We are waiting for answers, and I believe there will be answers. The verdict will not reduce my patriotism and commitment to democracy…” He cautioned those celebrating the verdict to be conscious of the consequences and implications on the nation. “Our forefathers worked hard to get us to where we are now. So, at a time like this, what are we bequeathing to future generation? Our children are asking questions that have not yet been answered, and the facts speak for themselves. I hope they will be addressed. It is a redefining moment, a time for sober reflection…” PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, called on eminent Nigerians and lovers of democracy to speak out on the matter. “Today, it is at the door of Imo. Tomorrow, it will be at another person’s door. So, people must speak out…” The party has insisted that the Supreme Court judgment, which removed Ihedioha be reviewed.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .