An aide to former Nigerian lawmaker Shehu Sani on Sunday said that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has blocked his principal’s bank accounts. Suleiman Ahmed, senior special adviser to Sani in a statement said the Nigerian anti-graft agency “forced (Sani) to declare his assets”. He questioned EFCC’s professionalism in handling his principal’s case, alleging that the anti-graft agency had been compromised. “What is the connection between allegations of extortion of $25,000 and then searching his residence, blocking his accounts and forcing him to declare his assets?” Ahmed queried The EFCC arrested Sani for allegedly demanding money from one Sani Dauda, owner of ASD Motors, to persuade EFCC chairman Ibrahim Magu to influence his case with the anti-graft agency. Sani, however, denied the allegation, but the anti-graft agency insisted that it was keeping the former lawmaker in custody in compliance with a court order. But Ahmed questioned the EFCC’s decision not detained Sani’s accuser “who admitted to giving bribe” and why it has not invited “Alhaji Samaila Isa Funtua who was mentioned in the frame up against Shehu Sani?” Asides Magu, Sani was also accused of collecting money from Dauda for chief justice of Nigeria Tanko and other judges to influence the judgement of his pending case at the Supreme Court. Dauda said Sani collected the money to use his connection with Mohammed. The CJN, however, denied having any connection with Sani. Countering the allegations against his principal, Ahmed said Sani’s accuser has no case at the Supreme Court that will warrant him bribing Magu or Mohammed on behalf of Dauda. “We have it on record that Shehu Sani’s accuser has no pending or ongoing case with the EFCC,” Ahmed said, “how comes did he give (gave) Shehu Sani bribe to give the EFCC or its chairman?” He asked the EFCC to publish any evidence of the allegations against Sani and stop the threats. “If you have any cheque or draft or anything to show please do so,” Ahmed said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .