Nigeria Twitter community has weighed in on the Supreme Court’s nullification of the election of Emeka Ihedioha as the Imo State’s governor. The usually vocal Nigerians on Twitter have expressed their ‘disappointment’ at the apex court’s declaration of Hope Uzodinma of the All Progressives Congress as the elected Governor of the state. Many have called the Supreme court declaration as a show of decadence in Nigeria’s judiciary arms of government. Looooooooool Supreme Court has sacked Emeka Ihedioha as governor of IMO state despite Ihedioha having 150,000+ more votes????? Ma guy if you have money ehn and you want to run away from this country????? DM me now!!!!!!!! — Aba Boy  (@Frank_LeanXV) January 14, 2020  Today, I sat for about an hour at the Supreme Court and listened to the Chief Justice of Nigeria. I left with a little drop of tears. Forget religion, ethnicity, tribe and political affiliation, no nation deserves Tanko as its CJN. pic.twitter.com/jS5nvyE7FB — Henry Shield (@henryshield) January 14, 2020  Hope Uzodinma of APC who came 4th with minimal votes declared winner by Supreme Court. What a regime! Nigerians go hear am TA TA TA TA — Comrade Deji Adeyanju (@adeyanjudeji) January 14, 2020  Breaking News: Supreme Court just declared Hope Uzodimma as Governor Elect of Imo State Me: This reminds me of a popular Yoruba proverb that says “instead of a child to beat me at checkers, I would outwit him by cheating” Congratulations APC. Tanko is working hard — The Revolutionary Seeker (WAEC) (@The_Seeker76) January 14, 2020  What a democracy, what a nation. What manner of supreme court judgement is this in Imo State. #Imolites must now embark on sit-at-home protest until at the least there is a re-run of the election. #Imostate #ImoWantsIhedioha #ihedioha4Imo pic.twitter.com/QTXLG4PwVN — Faustina Anyanwu (@fauntee) January 14, 2020  Remove the first figures from the number of votes gotten by the contestants in the IMO guber, you’d understand the logic the supreme court used, giving Hope Uzodinma the victory. When is the next boat crossing the Atlantic ocean, I’m done with this country. I can’t bear this pic.twitter.com/5AqUPsaDcn — Nzubechukwu (@Zubby96) January 14, 2020  Also, Ejike Mbaka, a Catholic priest in Enugu diocese, very popular for his prophecies was not left out of the conversation. Mbaka, during his church cross over programme held on January 1, said Uzodinma’s return will be among the things that will shock Nigerians in 2020. The pastor through this prophecy must have won for himself new followers. After Father Mbaka’s prophecy on Hope Uzodinma came to pass Adoration ministries on Sunday be like: pic.twitter.com/lBasxDS4K5 — DANNY WALTER  (@Cutewalterr) January 14, 2020  Rev father Mbaka prophesy when he said the candidate APC Buhari will defeat Goodluck PDP candidate in 2015, it came to past, now again he foreseen this Supreme Court judgment, that man is Real. Catholic family are lucky to have him as a priest — Walter Amayanvbo (@Eddywalter) January 14, 2020  Two weeks ago, Father Mbaka predicted that Sitting Imo state Governor, Iheanacho will lose his seat to Hope Uzodimma. Today, the Supreme Court ruling VALIDATED that predicted. Do we call him Octopus Mbaka now or what? pic.twitter.com/338geLUews — AURACOOL (@TWEETORACLE) January 14, 2020  That Rev.Father mbaka guy is a big scammer, he first caused a quarrel with Atiku in an open mass telling him he will not win because he refused to donate to the church.. Now he came again to predict that ihedioha will loose his position.. — PRINCE COLO (@colocase_) January 14, 2020  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .