Maria Russkikh | DailyMail A 29-year-old woman Maria Russkikh is currently recuperating in a hospital after surviving a jump out of an eighth-floor window in Russia. Russkikh who has terminal cancer is said to have suffered a mental breakdown before the attempted suicide as she strangled her nine-year-old daughter before taking the plunge out of the window. She was found lying on the snow and moaning in pain by residents of her apartment block who called emergency services in the city of Novosibirsk, southwestern Siberia. Her daughter was found lying in a pool of blood in the flat when police officers entered her apartment. Forensic examination showed the child was hit on the head with a heavy object before being murdered. A male resident told local media: ‘The woman was almost naked. Her legs and hands were covered with blood though there were no wounds on her body. I asked her what happened but she did not reply. She was only saying, ”Help me, I cannot feel my legs and arms”.’ Maria Russkikh and her daughter | DailyMail Investigators say that the blood found on the Russkikh’s body belonged to her daughter. According to the report, Russkikh left a suicide note in her apartment that reads: ”I cannot live with these unbearable headaches anymore. Forgive me. I love my daughter.” Russkih whose husband works for the military is now being treated for numerous fractures she had received due to the fall with doctors believing that although her condition is serious, she is stable. A statement of the local Investigative Committee said: “According to the investigation, on January 16, the woman strangled her nine-year-old daughter to death. After that she made an attempt to commit suicide and was hospitalised with numerous injuries. The suspect will be placed into custody after she is discharged from hospital.” The family was regarded as a good one by its neighbours. A woman living next door said: ‘The woman was a housewife. She almost never left the apartment. Her daughter constantly carried heavy bags from the local grocery store. The woman’s husband is a military man. He was always at work.” Police have since launched a criminal case for the murder of a minor against the mother. Detectives assume the woman had a mental breakdown triggered by her disease when she killed the girl and tried to take her own life.