 Photo: Forbes  Never has it been heard, in the history of the country’s education, that employers would have to retrain graduates before absorbing them in their workplace, until lately.For some years now, there have been tales of poor learning outcomes and inability of graduates to sufficiently apply their supposed knowledge to real life issues plaguing the country.
 
At a point, it began to sound like a national anthem, as there is hardly any official function where keynote speakers or panelists will not remind the audience that Nigerian graduates are not employable, among other challenges of the sector.
 
Government and key stakeholders continue to pay lip service to the sector with observers playing the blame game. Truly, the time is believed to be long overdue for policymakers to bring in ideas that will transform the sector.  These skills are critical thinking, creativity, collaboration, communication, information literacy, media literacy, technology literacy, flexibility, leadership, initiative, productivity and social skills.“In trying to achieve these, education sector needs to be better funded. Modern teaching facilities are needed in our schools. Teacher Education programmes need to be better encouraged. As it is, teaching as a profession is not very lucrative and inviting, the best of our brains are not encouraged to enroll to become teachers. People choose to become teachers today as the last option.
 
He continued: “The world has gone completely digital, and our schools must be made to follow same direction with the provision of relevant teaching resources. It is high time we do away with chalkboards. The world has come to a point that the jobs that are out there now do not require the conventional learning that students acquire in school.   Learning that promotes thinking out of the box is what is needed to be relevant in the nearest future. Schools have to be prepared to serve this function.”
 
Adeleke, who is the Dean Faculty of Education, advised that schools must begin to make vocational education a priority, highlighting that the fact that many graduates still find it difficult to get a job is a minus for the current educational system. He further stated that schools must be assisted through relevant policies and adequate funding so as to achieve the expected results.       
  
“Vocational education does not necessarily have to be in the areas of tailoring, hair dressing, GSM repairing as we currently have it. Brains of our youths have to be challenged in problem creation and solution. For instance, ICT has become a hot cake today because it solves problems. Many of these problems were created by some minds. Our educational system has to move away from the routine school going,” Adeleke submitted.
 
Professor of Counselling and Psychology, University of Ibadan, Ayo Hammed, on his part said, the world is going into the fourth revolution, and Nigeria cannot be left behind.He said in this era of robotic, artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, digital marketing and mechanised agricultural business, where will the Nigeria child be without sound educational background?
 
“The developed countries of the world are encouraging their children to learn about nonviolence education, tolerance education, peaceable behaviour, and transformative leadership so that they can live anywhere in the world and promote harmonious relationship. “What do we have in our country, violent crime, kidnapping, ritual killings, using human heart for pepper soup to make money. We need reorientation and re-engineering of Nigerian children and adolescents in the adoption of right value to life. Value clarification system and value education is missing.” 
 
He further counselled that year 2020 should be a year that the strategic focus on education shall include improving equitable access to quality education for all children of diverse educational needs.Not only that, it must also include provision of requisite teaching and learning materials; improved finance parameters; capacity development for professional and specialised teachers, return of Teaching Practice allowance for teachers in training; improvements in education service delivery as well as an enhancement for an institutional framework for the coordination and implementation of monitoring and evaluation.
 
By extension, he said, efforts must be made to implement the national policy on Early Childhood Education, National Policy on Counseling, National Policy on Information and Communications Technology (ICT) and all other policy guidelines to promote and enhance quality education in Nigeria.
  
On access, Hammed said, “This is a challenge. Fulani herdsmen children don’t go to schools. They don’t understand Western education. National Commission for Nomadic Education is underfunded. They are to take care of herdsmen, fishermen, Almajiris, street urchins, children in motor parks, hawkers, apprentices, house maids, retirees who needs retraining, widows who needs training and retraining.  Insisting that attention should also be paid to issue of finance, he said, “you will recall that every year we clamour for increase in budgetary allocation to the educational sectors, yet nothing is done about it.”He added that once all these are implemented the impact would be obvious in every facet of the nation’s economy, as well as the products at early childhood education, primary, secondary, and tertiary levels of education.
 
With the ugly situation around the sector hinged on poor governance and management, lack of clear-cut policies, inadequate learning infrastructure, low budgetary allocation, wrong investments, poor teacher education, among others, it is expected that key stakeholders will appropriately address all the issues raised in order to get the desired results.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .