One Joshua Adetutu, aged 22, has been arraigned before Ejigbo magistrate court for attempting to chop off his mother’s private part with a knife, claiming he suspected her of committing adultery. The incident happened at Odubanjo Street, off Governor’s Road, Ikotun area of Lagos, where his mother, Mrs. Jennet, resides with the suspect’s grandmother. It was gathered that Joshua locked his mother inside the room, held her hostage and then brought out a knife to chop off her private part after he reportedly pushed her down to carry out the act. However, Jennet was lucky after neighbours came to her rescue and then contacted the police at Area M Command, Idimu, Lagos. According to the prosecutor, Supol Kenneth Asibor, Joshua was arrested and detained at the command for interrogation. While being interrogated, he claimed his mother was disgracing him and does not respect herself in the area. It was learnt that Jennet married and had Joshua with other children before she separated from her husband and started living on her own. Then Joshua was living with his father before he allegedly defrauded his father and was remanded in Badagry prison. Jennet rallied round, got him released and he started living with her and his grandmother. The prosecutor said it was while living with his mother that he discovered that she was having male visitors, who he suspected were sleeping with her mother. “When it became unbearable, he attempted to chop off the mother’s private part which has landed him in trouble. The police found his action culpable and charged him before the Ejigbo Magistrates Court for the alleged offence.” He pleaded not guilty and the prosecutor asked that since he pleaded not guilty, the court should give a date for hearing to enable the police prove that he actually committed the offence. The presiding magistrate, Mr. Teslim Shomade, granted him bail in the sum of N50,000 with one surety in like sum and adjourned till February 26.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .