Adamu Candido …allocates 51.50 % for capital votes, moves to fish out ghost workers
The Chairman, Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) Adamu Candido has assented to the Council’s N8.7billion budgetary proposal for year 2020 following early passage of the nation’s budget by the National Assembly. The budget which represents a nominal increase of 3.43 percent above the N8.3 billion budget of 2019, allocates 51.52 percent to capital expenditure for the current year. AMAC is one of the six Area Councils that made up the Federal Capital Territory [FCT].
In a brief signing ceremony held at the AMAC headquarters in Area 10, Garki, Abuja, the Chairman tagged the 2020 estimates as ‘’Budget of actualization of promises made to the people’’. He sets priority areas to include infrastructure, especially standard roads in the communities, water supply, healthcare and other deliverables that could be of benefit to the people “We have only two years to deliver and we have to leave substantial things for those to succeed us”, am calling on all supervisory councillors and Special Assistants to kick-start the execution of projects immediately projects in line with the new budget circle.’’ He however, lamented the presence of ghost workers in the council’s payroll even as he vows to fish them out to face the laws. He said: “We’ve taken a look at our payroll and discovered that some people (AMAC staff) are no more with us, so we will identify them and have their names removed. Some of them have moved to other places; we must identify these names and put a stop to it immediately, they should not be paid beginning from this December. “Whoever is supporting them to take salaries without working, we will stop them because we cannot allow them to be collecting salaries in two places, it is cheating and it is not acceptable”. Speaking on the relationship with the Federal Capital Territory administration, the AMAC boss revealed that the council has entered into agreements with the Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) and Department of Outdoor Advertising and Signages (DOAS) on revenue collection and service delivery, which would remove frictions and increase internally generated revenue. He also appreciated the AMAC legislative arm for keeping sleepless nights to work on the budget in record time, saying: “we will not give up till we do the right things, I also call on our councillors to carry out healthy oversight and monitoring, stand your ground; we are committed to ensure that the right things are done.” According to him, the council has concluded plans to key into the Federal Government’s Ease of Doing Business initiative stressing, ‘’Well will key into the presidential encouragement to fast track processes of doing businesses, so that files do not spend months where they should not, where there are overlapping, we will ensure that we right the wrongs.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .