LONDON, ENGLAND – DECEMBER 18: John Boyega and family attend the European premiere of “Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker” at Cineworld Leicester Square on December 18, 2019 in London, England. (Photo by Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images for Disney) British-Nigerian actor, John Boyega has shown his parents the depth of his appreciation for them but surprising them with a house he bought for them. The Star Wars actor took to social media to share a video of the new home describing it as his best moment since rising to fame. Boyega said that house is a token of his appreciation for everything they have done for him and their prayers. The 28-year-old screen star presented the house gift to them with a prank after he took them to the house under the guise that he wanted to interview them. Upon their arrival at the house, he revealed to them that the house belongs to them. In the Instagram video he shared, he said that such moments make all the hard work worth it. At the presentation, he said: “This is just my physical appreciation, honestly from the bottom of my heart… It’s a small token… but I just thought it’s best that you live in an environment, and place where you’re happy and you have space and privacy. “It’s your prayers that have got this… because the skill and ability that I’ve received have been from your prayers, and I cannot ignore what God has used my parents to do in my life…” Watch the video below: https://www.instagram.com/tv/B7jDFP_H29w/?utm_source=ig_embed Boyega was born on 17 March 1992 in Peckham, London, England, to British Nigerian parents. His first role was a leopard in a play at his primary school. In September 2011, HBO announced that Boyega had been cast in the boxing drama pilot Da Brick, loosely based on Mike Tyson‘s life. In January 2016, Boyega formed his own production company, Upperroom Entertainment Limited. His company co-produced Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018), the sequel to the 2013 movie Pacific Rim, alongside Legendary Entertainment. In 2018, Boyega subsequently reprised his role as Finn in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, released in 2019.