Yusaka Maezawa | EPA Maezawa who is Japan’s 22nd richest man made the announcement to put a stop his search on Twitter. Yusaku Maezawa, a Japenese billionaire has halted his search for a girlfriend to join him on SpaceX trip to the moon. His search was due to become a show for Abema TV before he made the announcement saying he cancelled due to “personal reasons”. Known for tweeting in Japense, he took to his Twitter page to make three announcements in relation to the latest development about the search for a girlfriend to fly to space. His announcements were written in English. According to him, he received over 27,000 applications from women who wanted to join him for a trip to the moon as the first private passengers on billionaire Elon Musk’s SpaceX in 2023. The 44-year-old wrote: “Due to personal reasons, I have informed AbemaTV yesterday with my decision to no longer participate in the matchmaking documentary, hence requested for the cancellation of the show. “To think that 27,722 women, with earnest intentions and courage, had used their precious time to apply makes me feel extremely remorseful to conclude and inform everyone with this selfish decision of mine.” He continued: “I understand that I have disappointed many people – the applicants and all the staff from AbemaTV who were involved in the production – and I apologize to everyone for my unfavorable actions. I am truly sorry from the bottom of my heart.” Yusaku is known for conducting publicity stunts including offering cash to people on Twitter. He founded online fashion chain Zozotown and believes that all citizens should be given regular guaranteed cash sums – which he thinks will increase productivity. Maezawa put out the ad for a girlfriend not long after he announced his break-up with a Japanese actress. He made it known he was accepting applications from “single women aged 20 or over” who want to enjoy life to the fullest. The flamboyant entrepreneur said he agreed to the idea due to loneliness in middle age.