Oyo State Commissioner of Police (CP), Shina Olukolu, is not pleased with the unlawful covering of vehicle number plates in the state, despite several warnings in the past. He expressed this yesterday through a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, in Ibadan. “The Commissioner of Police has observed with trepidation and unwitting criminal implication of the unlawful covering of vehicle number plates by some individuals or personalities in Oyo. “The police authority in Oyo is highly worried by this ugly trend, and has resolved to enforce the arrest of any individual caught in this regard, as the spread of these act of lawlessness portends great danger to all and sundry in this era of armed robberies and kidnappings,” the statement read in part. Olukolu, therefore, warned Oyo residents to desist from such unlawful practice to avoid prosecution. Having observed the rising cases of fire in the state, he advised the citizens to put measures in place to curb the incidence. “The Commissioner of Police has observed with dismay the rising cases of fire in the state and wishes to advise all the citizens of Oyo to be wary of these recent occurrences and the need to put stringent measures in place to forestall future occurrence, especially during this Harmattan season. “He, therefore, wishes to sensitise all the good people of Oyo to endeavour to switch off all electrical appliances when not in use or when they are out of their various abodes, to prevent electrical upsurge and sparks that may eventually lead to fire outbreak and destruction of lives and property. “He equally wishes to enlighten the citizens that pots and pans of frying oil can easily cause fire if the person cooking gets distracted. Portable heaters are better kept, at least, some metres away from anything that could easily become inflammable such as furniture, curtians, and fabrics,” it added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .