• Court remands suspected killers of lady stabbed at Gbagada 
An 18-year-old suspected online fraudster, Victor Oji, who allegedly set his girlfriend ablaze in Iba Town in Ojo Lagos, was yesterday remanded by an Ebute Meta Magistrates’ Court. The Magistrate, Mrs. A. Kusanu, did not take the teenager’s plea, but ordered that he should be kept at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre, pending advice from the state director of public prosecutions. Kusanu adjourned the case until Feb. 19. Earlier, the Prosecutor, Insp. Jimah Iseghede, told the court that the defendant committed the murder on Dec. 7, 2019, at 10:00a.m. at No. G549, Army Post Service Estate, Iba Town. He said the defendant set ablaze his girlfriend, Tolani Mariam, aged 24, because he suspected she was cheating on him. According to the prosecutor, the deceased told the defendant that she was going to visit her sister who was put to bed, adding that she returned to the boyfriend’s house some days later. Iseghede added that the defendant later saw in the girlfriend’s phone, a video of her in a hotel taking hard drugs. This, he said, triggered his action. The prosecutor noted that murder contravened Section 223 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015, and carried death penalty. Meanwhile, an Ebute Meta Chief Magistrates’ Court in Lagos yesterday ordered that five men, who allegedly stabbed Ms. Moradeun Balogun on her way from work at NCIE bus stop, Gbagada, be remanded in a correctional facility. The police charged David Obi, 24; Ugochukwu Udochukwu, 20; Chidiebere Nnanna, 35; Samuel Nnanna, 32; Faruk Usman, 20 with three counts of conspiracy, robbery and murder. The Chief Magistrate, Mrs. A.O. Komolafe, who did not take the plea of the suspects, ordered that they should be kept in the Nigerian Correctional Service in Ikoyi, pending advice from the state Director of Public Prosecutions. Komolafe adjourned the case until Jan. 16. The Prosecution Counsel, Insp. Kehinde Omisakin, alleged that the defendants committed the offence on Dec. 2, at about 7:00p.m., at Gbagada bus stop. He alleged that the defendants stabbed the deceased, Balogun, on her neck with a knife and stole her laptop and other valuables. The offence, he said, contravened the provisions of Section 223, while conspiracy to wit murder and robbery contravenes 299, robbery contravenes 297 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .