Former Kano State governor Senator Ibrahim Shekarau has said efforts are ongoing to reconcile Kano Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and Kano emir Muhammadu Sanusi II amidst persistent claims of an unhealthy relationship between the duo. During a visit to BBC London office, Shekarau, the Senator representing Kano Central in the Nigerian Senate, said himself and other influential figures are working underground to a balance between the two leaders. There had been different moves by leaders from different quarters of the country to settle the undisclosed rift between Ganduje and Sanusi. Both Sanusi and Ganduje at different times had denied having a rift. The reported rift between both leaders got fuelled up in early May 2019 after Ganduje signed a bill to decentralise the Kano Emirate into four emirates to law. Signing the Kano State Emirs Appointment and Deposition Amendment 2019 bill into law sparked public outrage, alleging it was plotted to reduce Sanusi’s influence in Kano Emirate. The Kano Emirate was decentralised with the creation of four new emirates- Gaya, Rano, Bichi and Karaye by Ganduje. Ganduje, however, said that the creation of four new emirates in the state was to “reduce the burden” on the Kano Emirate led by Lamido Sanusi Lamido. “We created the emirates in order to reduce the burden on the Kano emirate,” Ganduje said while fielding questions from journalists at the inauguration of emirs of the new emirates in May 2019. After the creation of the emirates, Ganduje nominated Sanusi as the chairman of the Kano council chiefs in December 2019 with an ultimatum to accept within seven days. Shekarau likened Ganduje and Sanusi’s relationship to a human being living in good health sometimes and sick at other times. “It is a condition that is like a disease, one day you are sick but after a year, you have not been cured,” Shekarau said. He said the value of the kingdom and the Kano government will spur himself and other Nigerians continue to strive for reconciliation between the two leaders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .