 Mourners carry the coffins of slain Iraqi paramilitary chief Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani and eight others towards the Imam Ali Shrine in the shrine city of Najaf in central Iraq during a funeral procession on January 4, 2020. – Thousands of Iraqis chanted “Death to America” today as they mourned the deaths of al-Muhandis and Soleimani, who were killed in a US drone attack that sparked fears of a regional proxy war between Washington and Tehran. (Photo by Haidar HAMDANI / AFP)  “Death to America,” they chanted at a mass gathering in the streets of the southwestern city, where Soleimani’s remains arrived from Iraq before dawn, according to semi-official news agency ISNA. They beat their chests to the sound of Shiite chants and held up portraits of the general, seen as a hero of the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war and for spearheading Iran’s Middle East operations as chief of the Revolutionary Guards’ Quds Force. Soleimani was killed in a US drone strike Friday near Baghdad international airport that shocked the Islamic republic. He was 62. The assassination, which was ordered by US President Donald Trump, ratcheted up tensions between the arch-enemies and sparked fears of a new war in the Middle East. Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei vowed “severe revenge” and declared three days of mourning following the news of his death. Qais al-Khazali (C) commander of the Asaib Ahl al-Haq pro-Iran faction attends the funeral procession of slain Iraqi paramilitary chief Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, Iranian military commander Qasem Soleimani and eight others at the Imam Ali Shrine in the shrine city of Najaf in central Iraq on January 4, 2020. – Thousands of Iraqis chanted “Death to America” today as they mourned the deaths of al-Muhandis and Soleimani, who were killed in a US drone attack that sparked fears of a regional proxy war between Washington and Tehran. (Photo by Haidar HAMDANI / AFP)  In a saber-rattling tweet, Trump said: “If they attack again, which I would strongly advise them not to do, we will hit them harder than they have ever been hit before!” Tensions between longtime foes Iran and the US escalated last year when Trump unilaterally withdrew from a landmark accord that gave the Islamic republic relief from sanctions in return for curbs on its nuclear programme. – ‘Glorious crowd’ –
On Sunday, thousands of mourners dressed in black were seen gathered in the southwestern Iranian city of Ahvaz in a live broadcast on state television. The footage showed crowds gathered in Mollavi Square with flags in green, white and red — depicting the blood of “martyrs”. Men and women wept as they beat their chests to the sound of Shiite Muslim chants. Aerial footage showed a tide of mourners crammed into Mollavi Square and the surrounding streets of downtown Ahvaz, a city of 1.3 million people. “A glorious crowd is at the ceremony,” said state television. “The presence of children, teenagers, relatives, veterans, families of martyrs of (the Iran-Iraq war) and defenders of Haram (those martyred in Syria) is a glimpse of the glory of this ceremony,” it added. ISNA news agency said Soleimani’s remains and those of five other Iranians — all Guards members — killed in the US drone strike had arrived at Ahvaz airport before dawn. They are expected to be flown to the Iranian capital for more tributes on Sunday evening. On Monday, supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is expected to pray over his remains at Tehran University before a procession to Azadi Square. His remains are then due to be taken to the holy city of Qom for a ceremony at Masumeh shrine, ahead of a funeral in his hometown Kerman on Tuesday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .