• CSOs demand accountability in interventions, service uptake, delivery
• NHIS to accelerate UHC through insurance under one roof strategy  The Federal government has pledged N4. 3 billion ($12 million) in replenishment to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.<br />Photo: NEWSMEDICAL  Meanwhile, the Civil Society in Malaria Control, Immunisation, and Nutrition (ACOMIN) have said that in spite of the massive financial, material and human resource outlays, the fight against malaria and the challenges the disease poses, is yet to be won. Speaking at its advocacy meeting in Abuja, ACOMIN National Coordinator, Ayo Ipiyome, said there is a crucial need for enhanced accountability given the volume and breadth of investments by government, partners and stakeholders in malaria services and the need for evaluating the efficiency, effectiveness, and relevance of different malaria interventions including service uptake and delivery. He noted that from the World Health Organisation (WHO) report, Nigeria has the highest rate of malaria cases in the world, adding that the World Malaria Report 2019 showed that Nigeria accounts for 25 percent of global malaria cases and 24 percent of all its deaths globally. He observed that considering malaria as a public health challenge, the federal governments and global partners have made significant efforts to eliminate malaria, stressing that as a result of the efforts, the incidence of the ailment had reduced globally between 2010 and 2018, while in Nigeria, there remains a significant amount of work to be done. He said, “The importance of malaria as a public health problem had persisted in spite of the investments by government and partners and there remains a need for concerted, strategic actions by government, partners and stakeholders to engage in the efforts to eliminate malaria. In spite of the massive financial, material and human resource outlays, there is still much to be done. The fight against the problems and challenges that malaria poses is yet to be won”. Ipiyome called for concerted, coordinated action on the part of every stakeholder to address the high malaria burden in the country. According to him, the organisation is seeing the Federal Government and State Governments taking up the challenge and making needed investments in health and commended the improved investment in health in some states like Kano State, which allocated N8, 426, 000 for 2020 Fiscal year against the allocation of N3, 500, 000 in the 2019 budget, Kwara State (N82 million) and Osun State (N12 million). In another development, the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) is set to accelerate the attainment of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in the country using Health Insurance Under One Roof strategy. The Executive Secretary, Professor Mohammed Nasir Sambo who stated this while presenting the concept at a meeting of Chief Executives of the State Social Health Insurance Agencies (SSHIAs) in Abuja, noted that the greatest impediment to speedy attainment of universal health coverage in the country remains fragmentation of resources, policies, efforts, and strategies. Sambo stressed the need to develop an appropriate matrix of coverage, which will be a systematic arrangement that facilitates the achievement of set objectives. He noted that under the proposed arrangement, the development and deployment of ICT solutions, as well as Information, Education and Communication activities will have overarching and cross-cutting status, providing overall support services for the operational and management processes of health insurance in Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .