A wonderful New Year to you. The New Year holds no barred as it starts with intriguing suspense, drama and thrills. This week, we were hit with jaw-dropping news that has left us with mixed feelings. Here is a rundown of the week: Man and woman sleeping. | Havisasa Dirty Linens In Public These are interesting times for one of the most religious nations in the world. Although many of her citizens’ shy away from openly talking about sex, it appears they are busy behind closed doors searching about it on PornHub. The popular adult content website, in its list of “Top 25 Countries Searching BBW”, noted that Nigeria claimed the top spot in March with other African countries like Ghana, Kenya and Egypt following closely behind in second, third, and fourth place respectively. Your defence Nigeria? Madonna and William | Just Jared What is love?
Love is in the air for 61-year-old iconic singer, Madonna and her 25-year-old boyfriend and backup singer, Ahlamalik Williams. Taking a bold step to cement their affair, she met with his family and told his father that she loves his son. Williams’ father, Drue, says his son and “the Queen of Pop” are 100% definitely an item and she loves their son unconditionally and wants to take care of him. Drue added, “Love has no age” while acknowledging that his son is living the life. Guess the game is the game. Gabriel and Olubunmi Diya | Facebook Justice needed! Send help
The wife of the pastor of Redeemed Christian Church of God who died in a Spanish resort pool, Club La Costa World resort, along with two children is taking legal action against the operators of the resort.
Her husband Gabriel and son Praise-Emmanuel jumped into the pool where they were holidaying to help her daughter Comfort who ran into trouble in the pool. Although Spanish police said none of the three knew how to swim very well, Olubunmi Diya said her husband and children could still be alive if all was okay with the pool and has hired a Spanish lawyer to help sue the resort. Hulk and Camila | The Media Times Brazilian Jaruma?
Former Brazil international Hulk ended his 12-year marriage with Iran Angelo de Souza to date her favourite niece, Camila in a rather disturbing way. Hulk (real name Givanildo Vieira de Sousa) claims that announcing it himself makes his position “transparent.” Before Camila deleted her social media accounts, she wrote to Iran, “Although it is irrelevant to you now, I love you very much and care about you.” Iran, on the other hand, accused Hulk of not respecting “the pain of the one who always devoted love, affection, respect and consideration to him – as well as his children.” They had three children. A home in Downtown Abbey | Hello Magazine Privacy breach
British celebrities were taken by surprise after British officials published the home addresses of more than 1,000 people who received special honours including singers Elton John, Olivia Newton-John and knighthoods online. The list also included Oscar-winning film directors, senior politicians and diplomats, popular athletes and people in sensitive defence roles. The Information Commissioner’s Office has begun an investigation and has opined that it can impose fines for privacy violations. Still dreaming of living in the same neighbourhood as the wealthy?