 Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar (left); Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hazmat; Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo; and the Elegushi of Ikate, Oba Saheed Elegushi, during the S.L Edu Memorial Lecture organised by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in Lagos…yesterday.  Dignitaries at the lecture included the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo; Elegushi of Ikateland, Oba Saheed Elegushi; and representative of United States Consulate, Oliver Smith. Abubakar lauded state governors who were offering scholarships to children of the late soldiers. “We must never forget our fallen heroes because they are our brothers, sisters and family,” he said.Alhaji Abubakar urged Nigerians to learn to live together in peace, as war had proven to bring about malnutrition and death of both the young and old.“A war is a war, whether civil or others. We should continue to pray never to witness another civil war because hundreds of thousands of malnourished children die due to war,” he said. The president-general of Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), encouraged Nigerians to support government to end terrorism and banditry in the country.He advised leaders and politicians to muster enough political will to save the environment from its present deteriorating conditions, tackle the reality of climate change and manage the environment as well as curb degradation. Deputy governor of Lagos State, Dr. Hazmat Kadri, who represented Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, observed that Nigeria’s land mass was shrinking while population was increasing at an alarming rate due to changes in weather conditions.He, therefore, urged religious leaders and other Nigerians to consistently preach environmental sustainability to bequeath a liveable environment to generations to come. The Lagos helmsman stressed that more school clubs that champion the cause of the environment should be formed, to enlighten the society on mitigating the climate crisis and its impact on human survival. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .