One of the image deficits President Muhammadu Buhari’s-led ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will carry over into the year 2020 is the proposed $30 billion loan. The planned loan is already generating sharp reactions from prominent Nigerians whose fears centre on how the country will survive another debt burden if this is added to the humongous debt profile the country is currently servicing put at about $27 billion. With this new loan proposal, Nigeria’s debt profile would have risen to almost $50 billion.
 
This is apart from the recent embarrassment the government encountered over the controversial arrest and detention of the convener of #RevolutionNow protest, Mr. Omowole Sowore, inside the premises of a court and the illegal detention of former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col. Sambo Dasuki despite several courts ordering his release. The government was forced to rescind itself by releasing Sowore and Dasuki amidst serious criticisms from within and outside the country.  He explained that the current budget out of which Nigeria spends 25 per cent to service debt “is not the country’s total earning; a lot of it is also borrowing. Simply put, we are borrowing to service what we have borrowed and yet we are borrowing more.”  He said the government’s pressing needs included recurrent expenditure and servicing of the budget. “They understand that when it comes to recurrent expenditure if there is fuel scarcity there will be trouble in the country,” Omotola said. “If they do not pay workers salary there will be a crisis in the country. If they cannot pay debts on time it is a problem. All these things are not negotiable. Now, capital expenditure can still be negotiated. You can tell the contractor to go to the site and work and pay him as when-able. Because of these pressing needs the government, over the four years, has pushed itself to a corner. If anybody comes and proposed any economic solution within this short time other than to borrow, such a person cannot get it right. So, anybody that comes into government today has to borrow as the only option left. And this is a result of what they have created in the past. And borrowing these monies is further pushing Nigeria into a crisis situation because what that means is that our debt-servicing figure is going to increase. Now we are using 30 per cent of our income to service debts.
 
“But how serious is this government? It sets up an Economic Advisory Committee; the worry is, have we seen any impact? Has the committee even come up with a direction or proposed any rescue mission? The committee is just there, imaginary, in terms of name and position but in terms of impact, to critical thinking and radical approach for the survival of the country, it is not there.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .