French President Emmanuel Macron and his wife were rushed from a Paris theatre late Friday after protesters tried to burst in and disrupt the performance. Riot police were out in force as dozens of people staged a demonstration outside the theatre where Macron and Brigitte were watching “The Fly”. About 30 protesters tried to enter the building housing the renowned Bouffes du Nord theatre after some people in the audience tweeted the presence of France’s first couple, presidential staff said. The pair “were secured” for several minutes and later returned to their seats to finish watching the play, they said. Police said they prevented the protesters from getting into the theatre in the 10th district of Paris, which lies several kilometres from the president’s Elysee Palace’s residence. The Macrons, who occasionally slip out to enjoy a dinner or play in the French capital, finally left the theatre under police escort. “All together, general strike,” protesters shouted during the stand-off with riot police that lasted around an hour. The demonstration took place on the 44th day of a crippling strike against the Macron government’s proposed pension reforms. Though it is now easing, the strike has snarled train and metro traffic and caused misery for millions of commuters in Paris especially. Macron’s staff were defiant after Friday’s events. “The president will continue to attend plays as he is used to doing. He will watch out to defend creative freedom to ensure it is not undermined by violent political acts,” a Macron aide said. Making few public appearances for weeks, Macron last mixed with the crowds when he visited the northern city of Amiens in November before his retirement reforms were announced. The overhaul aims to forge a single pensions system from the country’s 42 separate regimes, which offer early retirement and other benefits to public-sector workers as well as lawyers, physical therapists and even Paris Opera employees.Critics say it will effectively force millions of people to work longer for a smaller pension.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .