 If we know tomorrow, the fourth thing we would lose is our trust in God. Photo; PIXABAY  Today, we enjoy the tenderness of love from one another because of the unknown tomorrow. Wherever you find a mother praying for her children, a father working hard to feed his family, husband and wife knitting together in the heavenly sacrament of wedded hearts, it is the darkness that enwraps tomorrow that makes that happen. If we knew everything, love would be too hard. If we knew everything, we shall be unconcerned. If you already know that a brother, who is begging you for his son’s schools fees would become a millionaire next week, will you be willing to assist him, unless you know he will pay you back with interest? If you know very well that a sick loved one would die in two days, would you still take the pain to take him to the hospital and pay the bills? It is far better that we do not know. It is better in the interest of love. It makes us stronger not to know the worst. It makes us tenderer not to know the best. • Our Trust In God
If we know tomorrow, the fourth thing we would lose is our trust in God. I do not think that anyone can doubt that. If a patient would undergo a very serious operation tomorrow and already knows that though critical it would be very successful, will she take time to pray for its success? Will she bother to call on her friends, Church Pastor, and Church members to pray for her? She will not bother, for she knew she will be okay. If we know tomorrow, we shall no longer bother to trust God. But God in His love and wisdom shrouded tomorrow from us, and that makes it easier for us to trust Him. He only allows us to know in part and see in part. (1 Cor. 13:12) Nevertheless, life is richer and not poorer because we know not what a day may bring and we are conditioned to trust God. Conclusion
Since God in His wisdom has not given us the knowledge of tomorrow which is a blessing, we should refrain from seeking to know it. Engaging in astrology, horoscope and reading zodiac signs should be forbidden among God’s people. (Deut. 18:10-14) We must also refrain from boasting about tomorrow. (Jam. 4:13, Pro. 27:1) Since we do not know tomorrow, let us be alert always and trust God for better tomorrow. (Matt. 6:34, Luke 12:28) Also, do the best you can today. Do not postpone good work till tomorrow. (Pro. 3:28) Above all, we may not know tomorrow, but we can know Him Who holds tomorrow. The more of Him we know, the more of tomorrow we can handle. According to Harry Heintz, “rather than fearing what is to come, we are to be faithful till Christ returns. Instead of fearing the dark, we’re to light as we watch and wait. “Let us depend on God much more, as we depend on the pilot, when we board an aircraft from Lagos to New York. Even though there may be turbulence, we trust that there will be a safe landing. Trust in God and Obedience to His Will is the panacea for uncertain tomorrow. If you are burdened by the desire to know tomorrow or the uncertainty of tomorrow, hand it over now to God, Who knows and also has power over tomorrow. During his 1960 presidential campaign, John F. Kennedy often closed his speeches with the story of Colonel Davenport, the Speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives. One day in 1789, the sky of Hartford darkened ominously, and some of the representatives, glancing out the windows, feared the end was at hand. Quelling a clamour for immediate adjournment, Davenport rose and said, “The Day of Judgment is either approaching or it is not. If it is not, there is no cause for adjournment. If it is, I choose to be found doing my duty. Therefore, I wish that candles be brought.” If you will surrender this year to God, He will daily unveil His plans and move you from glory to glory. Shalom. • Rev. Dr. Israel Kristilere, Senior Pastor, Shepherdhill Baptist Church,
(Sanctuary of Grace & Glory), Baptist Academy Compound, Obanikoro, Lagos. WhatsApp: 2348033052590. Email: revkristilere@yahoo.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .