 Abimbola A. Ogundare  Joseph, son of Jacob, was a practical biblical example. He arrived Egypt a slave boy, but became the next in authority to Pharaoh. He was not just praying and believing; he rose up the ladder by solving pressing problems of people at different points in time. Daniel is my hero in operating as a solution to people’s problem, setting for us an example to follow. Daniel solved the king’s problem; he met up with the king’s demand; and became what matters in the king’s matter. In Daniel’s testimony (Daniel2: 23: “…You have explained [made known] the king’s problem [matter] to us”) and the reaction of the king (Daniel 2:46-49: “Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell on his face, prostrate before Daniel…Truly your God is God of gods, the Lord of kings…Then the king promoted Daniel and gave him many great gifts; and he made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and chief administrator…”). it’s very clear that Daniel was persistently relevant in the king’s business. When shall the church’s dignity be restored, when Gentile kings in their own palace will prostrate themselves before the covenant people, rather than ridicule and insult them? The time is now, when the contemporary church will rise to be relevant in the king’s matter. It’s time to wake up from slumber to be solution to the problem of the world, so that Gentiles will come to our light and kings to the brightness of our rising. Speaking about the deteriorating state of our nation, the contemporary church has complained enough. The Christian body in Nigeria should mobilise the church to solve all our numerous national problems that have taken sleep away from government. Ministers should lead their parishioners to be committed to problem solving, and not just mere fasting. If we need to fast and pray, let it be to seek the face of the Revealer of mysteries to grant us knowledge and understanding to solve our nation’s persisting problems in particular and the world in general.
 • Ogundare is the Pastor, Peaceway Baptist Church. 12/14 Audu Street, Governor Road, Ikotun, Lagos State. +234-907-871-2107; peacewaybc@gmail.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .