A scene from previous edition of the festival Organisers of Lagos Theatre Festival (LTF) have unveiled the date for this year’s theatrical feast. The theme for LTF 2020 is, Going out of Bounds. Now in its seventh edition, the festival will hold in four venues across the city. They are National Museum, Freedom Park, Alliance Française de Lagos and British Council. The festival, which begins on February 27, ends March 1, 2020. It will feature a variety of artistic expressions such as, drama, dance, comedy, spoken words, concerts, film and workshops in unconventional spaces and traditional theatres. The festival was conceived and launched in 2013 with four shows as a fringe festival by the United Kingdom’s cultural organisation, British Council. It was created as a platform for theatre producers in Nigeria to develop audiences for their shows. Between 2013 and 2019, there were over 420 shows and 42,800 visitors to the theatre. Within this period, there had been 50 workshops, 260 production companies and 15 countries participating. British Council’s Head of Arts in West Africa, Ojoma Ochai, said, “from inception, one major vision of the Lagos Theatre Festival was to enable an experimental platform of expression from theatre producers and performers. Companies and individuals who participated in past editions of the festival have testified to the successes recorded. There is no restriction. We are going to ensure that people are able to express themselves through performing art and we hope to have more of such stories this year.” According to the organisers of the festival, which is now driven by a foundation, “primary among LTF’s objectives is to showcase innovative ideas that will inspire new audiences and spark conversation.” The festival organisers also urged participants to avail themselves of the benefits available in the fringe side of the theatrical feast. While talking about some of the key things the festival will be looking out for in the applications, Lagos Theatre Festival Foundation’s board member, Tosin Oshinowo said, “the festival is aimed at promoting theatre in Nigeria, and interested in works that are unique and can be adapted to unconventional spaces. We are looking for works that are experimental, fresh, innovative, and make use of unconventional space creatively. We are particularly interested in works that are multi-disciplinary and combines various art forms to create pieces that are thought-provoking, engaging and entertaining.” Members of the board this year include, Joke Silva, Olasupo Shasore (Chairman), Bolanle Austen-Peters, David Evans, Ochai and Oshinowo. Award-winning actress and producer, Bikiya Graham-Douglas, is the executive director and culture enthusiast and producer, Lydia Idakula-Shobogun, is the artistic director.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .