As the country was remembering its fallen heroes yesterday, state governors across the federation canvassed as well as promised more support for the armed forces and families of dead soldiers. They promised to support the forces and law enforcement agencies in the discharge of their duties. Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State appealed to the National Assembly to hasten the enactment of a law to improve the welfare of families of dead and retired soldiers. Tambuwal’s call came on the heels of a pledge by Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State to provide N1 million to the family of any member of the armed forces who died in active service in the state. Both spoke during the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration held across the country yesterday, according to the News agency of Nigeria. In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello reaffirmed his administration’s continued support to the armed forces, law enforcement agencies and the families of fallen heroes in the state. He charged the living heroes to continue to defend the nation’s sovereignty, urging the citizens to support the government in catering for those left behind by the heroes. Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi, while laying wreaths in honour of the slain soldiers at the Cenotaph, Unity Square, Abakaliki, tasked the army to be more focused on defending their father’s land. In Plateau, Governor Simon Lalong promised to empower families of military personnel in the state, who died in active service, through agriculture. Shortly after laying the wreath, Lalong said widows and children of the fallen military officers would be properly catered for through the agricultural policy of the state government. Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mr. Abok Ayuba; and the General Officer Commanding (GOC) 3 Division, Maj.-Gen. Nuhu Angbazo; and the Commander of Operation Safe Haven, Maj.-Gen. Augustine Agundu, among others, also laid wreaths at the event. Similarly, in Nasarawa, Governor Abdullahi Sule pledged his administration’s commitment to the education of children of the deceased members of the armed forces. He made the pledge in Lafia at the wreath-laying ceremony, adding that the welfare of the legionnaires would be given the needed attention by his administration. And in Niger, Governor Abubakar Bello said government would continue to support the military to flush out bandits and other threats of insecurity in the state. Bello said in Minna that the military had done well in tackling bandits and other criminals in the state. Taraba Governor Darius Ishaku, during the celebration, promised to support security services with more funds to boost logistics for maintenance of peace in the state. Represented by his deputy, Haruna Manu, the governor said the safety of citizens was the priority of the administration and urged residents of both southern and central parts of the state to cooperate with troops of the ‘Ayem Akpatuma II in their efforts to restore peace in the state. The day was also celebrated in Benue with the deputy governor, Benson Abounu, commending the armed forces for ensuring that peace reigned in the country. “Nigerians are very proud of the contributions made by the Armed Forces in upholding the peace being enjoyed in the country, Abounu told journalists shortly after he laid a wreath at the tomb of the ‘unknown soldier’ at the IBB Square in Makurdi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .