In furtherance of the priority given to road rehabilitation and construction in Lagos State, the people of the flood-prone areas of Ijegun, Ijagemo and Ijedodo will soon put their harrowing experience behind them as the state government prepares to construct a 19.39-kilometer network of roads in Ojo Local Government Area.
 
The Special Adviser to Governor Sanwo-Olu on Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye, said road construction is a focal point of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration as it is central to the delivery on all the pillars of the THEMES agenda.
 
She made this known while leading a team comprising the member of the House of Assembly representing Ojo Constituency 1, Olusegun Akande, Permanent Secretaries in the Ministry of Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Olujimi Hotonou and his counterpart in the Office Drainage Services, Engr. Lekan Shodeinde and a retinue of engineers on a tour to validate the design of the road.
 
Aramide revealed that the area was perpetually under water when it rains, partly because of the topography of the area but largely because the channels of the various water bodies have been heavily compromised by illegal structures. She noted that having harmonized the design with the consultant and all the outfalls of water run-off established flooding would be a thing of the past when the roads are completed.
 
The Special Adviser reckoned that the road project has been provided for in the 2020 budget and it will be executed in phases as it cut across many water bodies. This implies that, given the topography of the road some sections would be built on piles (deck on the pile) and there will be many bridges to be built in the course of the construction.
 
The road according to Adeyoye will bring a lot of relief to the area. For instance, the Ijagemo road leads to Ojo Barracks while Ijedodo links Abule-Ado on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway. The roads will change the socio-economic fortunes of the entire axis and raise the value of properties in the area.
 
Speaking to the leadership of the residents and community associations, Olusegun Akande implored the people to show their commitment for the commencement of the project by cooperating fully with government towards ridding the right of way of all encumbrances.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .