Sugar Rush – IMDB Recently the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) ordered cinemas nationwide to stop showing the film “Sugar Rush”. The report was met with a trail of negative reaction with social media users asking that the film be recalled. There were several speculations online that the film was banned because of its poor portrayal of the Nigerian law enforcement agency, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Musician cum actor, Bankole Wellington who had earlier confirmed the suspension of the film, said that he is optimistic that the film would be back in the cinemas. “If you saw Sugar Rush movie and loved it, or if you planned to, please read our statements. We are very hopeful and optimistic that the film will be back on screens in a few days, so please don’t give up on us, and please stay optimistic with us. The Executive Director of the National Film and Video Censors Board Alhaji Adedayo Thomas has addressed the speculations surrounding the suspension of the film in a statement published on the agency Instagram page: “It has come to our notice that #BringBackSugarRush is currently gaining momentum on Twitter with many speculating a ban on the movie ‘Sugar Rush’ and presuming the supposed action as a sign of government’s intention to stifle creativity,” his statement read. “The movie has not just significantly increased box office revenues within a short period but has improved our cinematic culture which is the sine qua non for attracting the investment we so much desire as a nation. “I, however, take responsibility for the gap in communication and the delay in granting final approval as the temporary approval given for the movie exhibition expired before we could release an official statement due to my preoccupation with extant responsibilities and a backlog of movies requiring approval as a result of the December rush. I am currently working with the distributor, producer, director and key actors to grant final approval for the resumed exhibition at cinemas,” he said. Sugar Rush follows the story of three sisters – Sugar sisters – who accidentally discover 800,000 dollars in the house of a corrupt man. In the next couple of days, they spend the entire money only to meet their waterloo when mafias come to claim the stake of the money. Watch the trailer of “Sugar Rush”:  