Continued pipeline disruptions, delay in passing the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) as well as other issues, may drag necessary reforms needed for growth in Nigeria’s oil and gas sector this year.
  
Indeed, The Guardian had last year reported that over $163 billion projects initiated across the industry value chain remain in limbo, as investment drought takes a new turn in the country.
  
With the exception of the Final Investment Decision (FID) for Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) Train 7 Project, which was taken last month, the fate of other projects hangs in the balance.  “However, a cut to amnesty payments could quickly change regional security dynamics.”
 
Nigeria saw its production plummet to a 30-year low of around 1.4 million b/d in mid-2016, due to devastating attacks on oil installations by Niger Delta militants.
 
Nigeria’s singular piece of legislation aimed at introducing radical reform in its oil sector, the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, or PIGB, is still gathering dust in the parliament as it continues to bounce between legislative and executive arms of government. The PIGB, which would change the organisational structure and fiscal terms governing the Nigerian oil industry, has been in the works since 2008. Foreign oil companies have said billions of dollars in investments in the Nigerian oil industry have been held up due to the non-passage of the PIB. Nigeria aims to increase oil production from to 3million b/d by 2023, according to a government document. But industry analysts say the target may elude the country due to the climate of uncertainty the non-passage of the PIB has created. Most analysts do not expect the bill to be passed this year, which means international oil firms are unlikely to increase their investment in the country unless more attractive terms are offered. “Buhari could provide a positive signal to investors and temper tumbling investor confidence through a speedy passing of the PIGB in 2020, a prospect, however, that remains remote,” Hobey-Hamsher said. Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, however, said he will be striving to get the PIGB passed by mid-2020.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .