Ibori Golf and Country Club (IGCC) Asaba is one of the biggest golfing facilities in both the South South and South East regions. Its membership spans all strata of life with those associated with it describing it as second to none in the comity of golf clubs in Nigeria. However, the leadership of the club are not contented with having a good facility to practice their love. Now, they want to expand the facilities to make IGCC the first among equals. Towards this end, newly sworn-in captain of the club, Mr. Alfred Ebreneyin has solicited the cooperation of members towards the development of the club in the 2020 golfing season. Ebreneyin, who was sworn-in alongside other members of the executive on Sunday in Asaba, commended his predecessor, Chief Nicholas Chizea for the positive steps he took towards stabilising the club, saying: “He has not been afraid to make brave decisions in effecting changes to move the club forward.” Other members of the new exco include Jimmy Odogwu, Vice Captain; Angela Uwabor, Lady Captain and Hetty Egbai, who will serve as the Lady Vice Captain. Also in the new executive committee are Ibrahim Khalil (Secretary); Chuks Nwani (House officer); Gibson Lee (Course Officer); Gabriel Okpuno (Competition Secretary); Alex Joe (Treasurer), and Tam Brisbie, who is the Handicap Secretary. Ebreneyin said, “The Exco would seek tournament packages that will attract golfers from other clubs across the country, and to further improve the aesthetics of the golf course. “Also, we will do our best to organise grassroots development programmes and embark on membership drive. “We have a fantastic golf course in a great location, a growing membership, excellent facilities, and a great community who come together to play golf. “A healthy golf club relies on a strong membership and I would like to think that we can all help the club by being positive ambassadors. The more we can all talk about the club, the more people we can attract, and the busier we can be. It’s a great place to be when we are all pulling in the same direction. “I am imploring all members to enjoy their golf this season and I look forward to playing with as many golfers as possible over the next golf season,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .