Israel Adesanya lands a blow on Robert Whittaker when they met at Melbourne, Australia last October Photo: AAP Nigerian-born New Zealand based Mixed Martial Artist, Israel Adesanya says he is ready to take the world by storm and join the ranks of MMA’s biggest stars by winning his bout against Cuban monster, Yoel Romero, in March in Las Vegas, United States. Adesanya, who hails from Odogbolu, Ogun State is an accomplished kickboxer who turned his striking skills into an elite MMA career a few years ago. Undefeated in 18 fights till date, Adesanya recorded seven victories in the UFC, including a three-fight run that saw him defeat the legendary Brazilian Anderson Silva, won the interim middleweight title in a war with Kelvin Gastelum and knocked out Robert Whittaker to become undisputed middleweight champion in Melbourne, Australia. Now, Adesanya says he wants to stay as active as possible in 2020, starting with a bout against the Cuban, Romero in Las Vegas. Adesanya is a known fighter to Australian fans following his epic bouts with former champion Robert Whittaker. He blitzed Whittaker in two rounds last October to claim the UFC middleweight title. Adesanya has fought seven times in the UFC in the last two years, and is willing to enter the cage as many as four times this year (2020). With his captivating striking style and charisma, ‘The Last Stylebender,’ as Adesanya is called by his fans, could well become one of the sport’s biggest stars if he wins the battle of Las Vegas in March. According to an ESPN report, Adesanya versus Romero’s fight is a done deal for UFC 248 on March 7 in Las Vegas. His opponent, Romero is an Olympic silver medalist wrestler who has been a longtime contender in the middleweight division. Though Romero has lost his last two fights, but he remain one of the most feared men in the division. While Romero wrestling skills and powerful hands have been effective weapons over the years, he has somewhat self-sabotaged in the past. In July 2017, Romero battled Whittaker to a competitive unanimous decision loss in an interim title bout. Then, the following February, he defeated Luke Rockhold, also in a fight for the interim belt but had missed weight, making him ineligible to become champion. A rematch with Whittaker was up next and again Romero was ineligible to win the title — this time for the undisputed title — in another close decision loss.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .