Kebbi state Governor Atiku Abubakar Bagudu has said no state government can meet up with the international commitment on budgetary allocation to the education sector annually. Bagudu made the assertion while speaking at the 10th anniversary of the Mallpai Foundation founded by his wife Aisha Bagudu in Kebbi State. The governor said it was true that the World Bank had recommended that a minimum of $700 should be spent on each primary school pupil annually, amounting to about N100billion annually for 500million pupils, but asked, “where do we get the money from?” He said it is important for the federal government to begin to attract members of the international community including the United Nation systems, World Bank to the education sector. “We have paid our dues, contributed to global peace so this is our time of need, they must also come to our aid to bridged the gap in the education sector so that government efforts will pay off and we can do well together,” he said. “it would be difficult for states like Lagos state and others earning higher revenue to meet up with such allocation to the education sector which is why it’s important for the international community to support governments effort in providing quality education to Nigerian children.” The Kebbi State governor asked the United Nation Education Scientific and Cultural Organizations (UNESCO) to clarify the actual budgetary allocation needed for the education sector. Bagudu said it is not enough to recommend that 15-26percent of the annual budget should be allocated to education, rather he said there is a need to measure the sector performance in the budget. He tasked NGOs such as the Mallpai Foundation to assist the government in mobilizing resources to bridge the current funding gap. The Wife of the Kebbi State Governor Aisha Atiku Bagudu noted that Mallpai Foundation has been addressing the plight of the Almajiris in the area of providing mass literacy for the less privileged in the communities. Meanwhile, the Wife of the Niger State Governor Dr Amina Abubakar Bello urged the government to improve the quality of the teachers and create a better studying environment for children to go to school.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .