H.E.R and Missy Elliot | Ad Age 48-year-old rap legend Missy Elliott joined forces with 22-year-old R&B songstress H.E.R. for Pepsi’s latest Super Bowl LIV game-day commercial. The ad will air on Sunday when the San Francisco 49ers and Kansas City Chiefs compete for the championship title. The advert is for Pepsi Zero Sugar and there seems to be shade aimed towards rival soda company, Coca Cola. The ad opens with a group of women holding a red cola bottle that transforms into a black Pepsi Zero sugar can as H.E.R sings about not wanting colours and painting it black. Missy Elliot and H.E.R | Adweek The “Work It” hitmaker who is defiant comes in next as she raps about seeing a red door but painting it black and being in her own lane unapologetically. The ad ends with another cola bottle turning into a Pepsi can and one can’t help but wonder if this is a not so subtle jab at Coca-cola. Watch the ad that references Coca-Cola here:  Talking with PEOPLE about collaborating on their music video inspired commercial for Pepsi Zero Sugar, Elliot revealed she was excited to work with H.E.R because they had spoken on Twitter in the past. “When I first got the call about doing the Super Bowl commercial, I was honoured,” she tells PEOPLE. “I believe this is my fifth one. Each time is like the first because it’s always a big deal. I’m always calling everybody in my family like, ‘Make sure you crush it this year.’” “When Pepsi reached out, I didn’t know who I was going to be doing it with,” she says. “Then they said, ‘H.E.R.’ so I’m most definitely honoured because I at least talked to her a few years ago on Twitter.” H.E.R. is also stoked to be starring alongside the rap veteran in the commercial. “Words cannot describe; it’s honestly surreal for me,” she says. “Because, it’s a Super Bowl commercial and it’s Pepsi and I can never believe these opportunities when they happen. I don’t know what it is, but there is something really special about this specific commercial. Especially the fact that I got to work with Missy for a really iconic song and Timbaland as well. It’s surreal. It’s amazing.”