• Group cautions Nigeria over IMN’s threat to U.S., UK citizens
• ‘FG wants El-Zakzaky dead in detention’ Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu yesterday placed Police commands and formations nationwide on the red alert. He said the measure was taken after intelligence report showed that “some domestic interests were planning to embark on massive public disturbances and sabotage.” The move came in reaction to the recent killing of Iranian General Qasem Soleimani by the United States of America (USA). “Consequently, zonal AIGs and command commissioners of police have been directed to ensure maximum surveillance and security of life and property across the nation. “The police commanders have been directed to ensure strategic deployments of both overt and covert police operatives, to ensure adequate security and safety of citizens, foreigners especially diplomats and diplomatic missions domiciled in Nigeria as well the protection of critical national assets,” he said. The IGP assured Nigerians and foreigners resident in the country of adequate security and “warned all troublemakers to steer clear of the streets and territory of Nigeria.” Besides, the Global Action for Peace (GAP) has alerted the USA and Britain to the safety of its citizens in Nigeria following threats of attack by the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN). The Islamic sect had hinted of an impending attack on foreigners after a military action by the United States of America led to the death of top Iranian military commander, General Qassem Soliemani in Iran. Speaking at a media briefing yesterday in Abuja, the GAP revealed that the threat issued by the IMN to citizens of the U.S. and the United Kingdom (UK) in Nigeria was an “affront on our collective sensibilities as Nigerians, which must be looked into by the security agencies.” Convener of the group, Dr. Joseph Agbo, stated that the action was an indication of the lack regard the group has for constituted authorities in the country and urged the nations to blacklist the sect known for violence and bloodshed. It further advised the U.S. and UK to activate measures that would support the efforts of the security agencies in Nigeria in curtailing the IMN’s threats. Meanwhile, members of IMN have alleged that Federal Government’s refusal to release the leader of the sect, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, was a plan to make him die in detention. The Department of State Services (DSS) had detained El-Zakzaky since 2015 after confrontation with officers of the Nigerian Army, in which some members of the sect were killed in Kaduna State. National President of the Association of Shi’ite Singers also known as ‘Ittihadus Shu’ara Harakatil Islamiyya, Mustafa Umar Gadonkaya, made the allegation at the weekend during the lunching of 100 songs in Bauchi in solidarity with El-Zakzaky. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .