Global Interns, a professional group committed to the personal development of young people, in partnership with telecommunication giant, Airtel Nigeria, continued its ‘Career Connect’ series recently in Lagos, with a special training on skills for employment. Tagged “Training for Employability Skills”, the exercise was designed to provide graduates with the knowledge and soft skills to develop self and prepare for the workplace especially as more employers continue to seek versatile skills from entry level employees. During the two-day training, participants drank from the pool of certified and experienced trainers on topics like Proficiency in Digital Skills – Learn Self-Management Skills -Introduction to Analytical Skills -Communication and Reasoning Skills – Writing Resume Q & A. In her welcome remarks, Olufunmilayo Modupe, principal adviser to Global Interns, disclosed that the organisation berthed in 2016 as a mediator agency connecting students to internship jobs and career development opportunities. Funmi also commended Airtel Nigeria for supporting the Global Interns Training alongside their esteemed partners like HR Analytica, Hamilton & Lloyds and FutureSoft who were on ground to assess and engage the trainees. Some highlights of the two-day Global Interns training for employability skills also included four Smart Class anchored by seasoned professionals like Chinedu Duru, Managing Consultant at Hamilton Lloyd and Associates Elizabeth Ajala, Digital Skills Trainer and Consultant; Kayode Abass, Marketing Consultant & LinkedIn Strategist and Ebere Njoku, Founder, Wholesome Inspiration Network. One of the facilitators, Duru, enjoined the youths to know themselves and become attractive to employers by imbibing self-management skills. The array of enthusiastic trainees also broke out after class into mini sessions with the experts for assessments and advice. Aramide Oni and Eton Angela, both students of the Bells University Ota, Ogun State, commended the organisers of the training for the invaluable knowledge they were taking away. This line was also echoed by McJustice Charles who added that the training had equipped him with the power of goal setting. Also in attendance were graduates from Pan Atlantic University, University of Lagos, University of Nsukka, Babcock University, as well as some new entry employees. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .