 [FILES] Vocal Chain Nigeria recently invited international voice coaches led by Gisil Magna Sigridarson to train over 45 choral singers.Photo: PIXABAY  Held at the Church of Resurrection, Victoria Island, Lagos, the event themed Choral and Voice Enhancement Workshop attracted choristers and other gospel music lovers, who were coached by the voice experts. Founder of Vocal Chain Nigeria, Guchi Kest Egbunine, disclosed that the focus is on the fundamentals of drawing out the singing voice, using tips ranging from warm-ups to practice techniques, exercises and activities that reinforce the foundations of singing safely, freely and joyfully. “We decided to invite a foreign voice coach, Gisil Magna Sigridarson and others to train them. It is a day of practical hands-on learning for singers, conductors, and choral leaders. We want the choral groups to come together to sing and after the training, they would reciprocate the skills in their areas. “As a classic musician, I have a passion for music; I can do both gospel and secular music because of my training and background in music over the years. Our move is to help the choristers sing properly, to uplift the singing culture and boost the African heritage,” the tenor singer hinted. He urged singers to avoid excessive alcoholic, dairy food, oily food to boost their vocal chord. According to him, a good singer should desist from oily food three hours before any performance. Egbunine disclosed that after the training, a choral group would be formed as a platform to network and mentorship with another group outside the training. Sigridarson pointed out that Nigeria is a great country blessed with talented musicians, hospitable people, and a rich cultural heritage. The workshop, he said, is aimed to enhance the choristers to maintain their originality, vocal strengths and African flavour. “Today, I had great fun and excitement working with the chorister groups; they sing fantastically and in harmony regardless of their voice types,” he noted. The guest speaker added that the choristers have been trained in the discovery of vocal strengths and weakness, pitch, voice types, urging them to work in harmony as a team during the rehearsals. The church hall was filled with happy choristers and people showcasing their singing, vocal and dance talents. The rehearsal of cultural songs and dances were energetic and electrifying. The choral group did some traditional songs spiced with latest dancing steps that excited the audience. Some of the songs include Were Oye (Ghanaian praise), Steal away to Jesus (Negro spiritual arranged for SATB by JD Riding), Let my prayer come up (by John Blow 1649-1708). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .