Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has elected former Commissioner of Special Duties, Seye Oladejo, as publicity secretary, and former member of the House of Assembly from Ojo II Constituency, Lanre Ogunyemi, as secretary. Their elections were sequel to the appointment of immediate past publicity secretary, Joe Igbokwe, as Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Drainage and Water Resources. Ogunyemi, who was secretary of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD), succeeded the immediate past APC secretary, Dr. Wale Ahmed, who is Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations. A legal practitioner, Mrs. Abimbola Ladigbolu, was also elected as Assistant Legal Adviser during the Lagos State Special Congress at the party’s secretariat, Acme Road, Ogba area of the state. Speaking during the congress, Lagos APC chairman, Tunde Balogun, described the newly elected members of the executive as experienced people who once served in different capacities in the party and state government, and that they would add value to the party. He said Lagos APC adopted consensus in getting replacement for the vacant offices and that the congress was held to ratify the decision. Oladejo said he would do his best as the party’s spokesman to project the image of the APC and government in the state. His words, “I appreciate the leadership of the party, starting from the APC national leader, Bola Tinubu, and all other leaders and members of our party for deeming it fit to make me the official spokesman of APC in Lagos. “Personally, I see it as a call to service at another level. I have been around for quite some time within the party and within the government. My duty is to make sure that we disseminate information at the party level, promote the party’s interest and communicate with members of the public in the best way possible that our party and our government can serve the interest of the general public.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .