Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the general overseer of The Redeemed Christain Church took to his Twitter page Wednesday morning to admonish married individuals against having a close relationship with opposite sex other than their partners. The Sermon
Pastor Adeboye, in a series of tweets titled “Crush That Crush”, bemoaned the close friendship between married individuals and persons other than their spouses. “What is a married woman doing on the phone with another man for countless minutes? Why would a married man be spending so much time with another man’s wife? Why would you prefer to discuss intimate issues with your “friend” of the opposite sex instead of your God-given spouse?” The preacher considered those that might say that they are “just friends” with someone other than their partners. “That is exactly where it starts from. The devil knows you are a Christian and would not fall for someone just like that. So, he makes you become good friends with the fellow and before you know it, you would have fallen”, he said. The septuagenarian was also noted that if there is anyone you admire “unduly” other than your spouse, that person must be seen as “the devil” and gotten rid of immediately. To drive home his point, Adeboye narrated the story of one of his “sons” who told him how he was always excited to resume the office every Monday because he would get to see his secretary again. Adeboye said he advised the said son to “fire her immediately”. His reason: Nothing and no one is worth your marriage. To combat the “problem” of being close to someone outside one’s marriage, Adeboye advises that couples should spend more time with each other. “Spend more time with your spouse and make him/her your confidant. Exchange compliments… If there is no distance between yourself and your spouse, no crush can come between you.” “No one should be closer to you or know more about you than your spouse,” he concluded. Adeboye’s message questions the friendship between married individuals and members of the opposite sex. Is the preacher sexualising all forms of friendships between man and woman or does all friendship with the opposite sex lead to infidelity? The RCCG pastor stopped short of saying a married person can never have a platonic relationship with persons that are not their husbands/wives. Zero Responsibility?
Adeboye’s Twitter sermon was met with criticisms as his message was seen as encouraging irresponsibility on the part of married couples who have a crush on other people. Adeboye asked his son to fire his secretary rather than reprimand him for not curtailing his own emotions. Is the preacher advising that other people should take the fall for our own actions or inactions? Why did he not advise his son to put himself in check? A Twitter user noted that would Adeboye have asked his son to resign if he was crushing on a female boss? Would the man keep on firing one secretary after another if he is susceptible to infidelity? The Backlash
As with all sermons, some are received with admonition and praises, others fall by the wayside where critics have a field day trampling on it. You asked your son to render his secretary jobless over a possible non-issue that is not her fault, when you can simply just tell your son to behave himself and honor his own marriage if you suspect that there’s more to the excitement? E wildddddddddd gaan Sir! — Uncle Demola (@OmoGbajaBiamila) January 29, 2020  That “Secretary” is someone’s loved one too, someone’s daughter, she probably has people who depend on her for survival, education & health bills. She might even be your tithe paying member too. E jeka maa fi dida ara wa. — Wale Gates  (@walegates) January 29, 2020  Okoto meow. African pastors and the devil. It’s always the devil. Follow advise at your own risk. This guy should just preach the Gospel and stop being an online marriage counselor. — Ibrahim Abdur-Razzaq (@Ibrahimarazaq) January 29, 2020  It is unfair that an innocent secretary gets fired for a man’s lustful desire she knows nothing about, however, doing so may be the 1st reaction to redemption but the most honourable thing to do is for the man to retrace himself to righteousness — Dotun Sunday Olufemi (@Somidotun7) January 29, 2020 