 Professor Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). Photo: FACEBOOK/NCC  Meanwhile, NCC and Telecom infracos have concluded plans to raise N265billion for broadband development in the country. Out of the amount, N200billion would be raised by infracos, while NCC would bring in N65billion subject to approval by the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof Umar Danbatta, disclosed this during a meeting with the Swedish Ambassador to Nigeria, Amb Carl Micheal Grans, yesterday, in Abuja. He said Globacom Nigeria has expressed interest in trial rollout of the 5G network, adding that security agencies were monitoring the 5G rollout trial done by MTN Nigeria, because of the far-reaching implication of the technology. Danbatta, who solicited for more training for NCC staff and other agencies under the Federal Ministry of Communication and Digital Economy, to enable them meet the challenges of emerging technologies, told Grans that an important policy of the government is to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. He explained that to meet the target, an average of 10 million Nigerians are expected to be reached, which can only be achieved through skills acquisition. He said, “Skills are crucial to us since it is an important initiative of the federal government, and therefore I will like the federal government to again appreciate the offer to give capacity building. We hope that the Embassy will continue to facilitate this kind of intervention through the NCC to agencies, the ministry and to the country, especially now that our ministry has been renamed from Communications to Communications and Digital Economy. The digital economy is driving that additional mandate towards capacity building too, and we hope to get a double benefit from the wealth of the experience, especially with Sweden being a leading broadband market. “We appreciate you for assisting us in diverse areas of information and communication technology. We will continue to count on your support on various initiatives as well as collaborations targeted in communication and technology development.” Earlier, the Ambassador assured that Sweden will continue to support Nigeria in ICT development, as it will help to facilitate trade between the two countries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .