 Esther Ojooluwa Adebowale with the principal of her new school,Mr. Andrew Jedras  Adebowale from Igbooye in Eredo Local Council Development Area won the prize out of 85 pupils that participated in the scholarship examination. Confirming the award, chairman of the school’s Educational Trust Council, Chief (Mrs) Taiwo Taiwo, said the awardee emerged the best after a series of oral and written examinations, in which she performed brilliantly. “Adebowale won a full scholarship to cover her tuition, boarding fees, school uniform, sportswear, and other levies for the six years in which she remains a pupil of Atlantic Hall School.   The scholarship, currently valued at N30m is our yearly contribution to lifting the circumstances of children from within our host communities,” she said. The father of the awardee, Mr. Adebowale, who was extremely excited with the development, expressed unalloyed appreciation to the benefactor, saying, “My heart is full of so much gratitude. I do not know how to express it. With my humble circumstances, I could never have dreamt of my child going to this beautiful school. Now see what the school has done for us. My family rejoices and prays for the school.” Since the commencement of its scholarship programme in 2010, the school has contributed in excess of N80m yearly scholarships, benefitting six less-privileged children, three of whom have since graduated and moved on to institutions of higher learning. Offering top class, world-class standards of education, the school persistently records excellent results in both academic and extracurricular activities, ranking top tier locally and globally year on year. Noting that the school is determined to consolidate the track record of excellence it is known for, the principal, Mr. Andrew Jedras, said: “We have aligned our strategic thinking, planning and direction to ensure that the education that students receive here reflects our transformative approach, one that is more than knowledge acquisition, but which has at its core, critical tools young people require to succeed in the 21st century.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .