Rivers state governor Nyesom Wike’s comment on traditional rulers during a meeting on Tuesday has been greeted with mixed reactions from Nigerians. The governor, in a viral video on social media, was seen tongue lashing out at the traditional rulers for not coming to the meeting with their staff of office. The governor said going forward he wouldn’t tolerate any traditional rulers coming to see him without their staff of office. He also berated the traditional rulers for clapping when he announced that a bill sanctioning people who parade themselves as traditional rulers without being recognised by the governor would be sent to the state assembly. Wike went further to pick on the traditional ruler of Omuma, King Onyekachi Amaonwu, whom he said was shaking his head while he was speaking. “Stop shaking your head! You!You! you are one of those who are causing problem. They gave you chieftaincy, you’re a young boy you don’t know what to do with it and then when I am speaking you’re shaking your head like this,” Wike said. “All fake! fake! Causing problem everywhere. He will just go and wear something bigger than him, you will think he is an elderly man. I remember when I was in school, he was running around.” Some Nigerians found the video funny while others have criticised the governor for not respecting the traditional rulers and their office. This is how Governor Wike talks to Traditional Rulers in Rivers State. Really sad! I don't blame him though, I blame some of this traditional rulers who sell themselves cheaply to government for peanuts. No Governor in the South West will try this. They never born them well! pic.twitter.com/joMHawEjgM — Wisdom Chapp-Jumbo (@Mr_Wizzo) January 15, 2020  Honestly speaking, Governor Wike is an intrepid comedian. Haha. Listen to how he reprimanded this traditional chief like a small boy.  pic.twitter.com/jNpLp3Ah3M — Olusegun Iselaiye (@iotama22) January 15, 2020  If the Oba of Benin or Allafin of Oya or the Oba of Ife (I hope that's what he is called) was in Gov Wike constituency I.e River state, can he do this??? Na because them don rubbish their throne with politics money na y this thing fit happen pic.twitter.com/xkK6ZAF29s — Seriously Unserious Guy (@Isoko_pikin) January 14, 2020  If you're having a bad day, just remember how Gov. Wike finished this traditional ruler in Rivers State pic.twitter.com/efreiJosDN — Bodunrin Folorunso (@BondFolo) January 15, 2020  This man's face when Wike said that he was "wearing Uthman Dan Fodio". Priceless!  pic.twitter.com/OOqPtCN60B — Ifeanyi Aneke (@ifeanyianeke) January 15, 2020  Wike…..Intents are good but mannerism is poor. Speaking to his traditional rulers and cabinets in this manner in a televised conference. pic.twitter.com/w9Knk8V2Ei — Lawrence (@lawrenzez) January 15, 2020  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .