The World Customs Organisation (WCO), has disclosed that the “HS 2022,” which is the seventh edition of the Harmonised System (HS) nomenclature used for the uniform classification of goods traded internationally, will come into force on January 1, 2022. The HS serves as the basis for customs tariffs, and for the compilation of international trade statistics in 211 economies (of which 158 are contracting parties to the HS Convention), including Nigeria. It noted that all contracting parties have ratified the Harmonized System Convention. The new HS2022 edition makes some major changes to the Harmonised System with a total of 351 sets of amendments covering a wide range of goods moving across borders. Among the highlights include: adaption to current trade through the recognition of new product streams and addressing environmental and social issues of global concern are the major features of the HS 2022 amendments. “Visibility will be introduced to a number of high profile product streams in the 2022 Edition to recognise the changing trade patterns. Electrical and electronic waste, commonly referred to as e-waste, is one example of a product class, which presents significant policy concerns as well as a high value of trade. Hence, HS 2022 includes specific provisions for its classification to assist countries in their work under the Basel Convention. “New provisions for novel tobacco and nicotine based products resulted from the difficulties of the classification of these products, lack of visibility in trade statistics and the very high monetary value of this trade. “Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), commonly referred to as drones, also gain their own specific provisions to simplify the classification of these aircraft. Smartphones will gain their own subheading and Note, which will also clarify and confirm the current heading classification of these multifunctional devices,” it stated. Given the wide scope of the changes, there are many important changes not mentioned in the short introduction, adding that the recommendations would be published soon. While January 2022 may seem far off, a lot of work needs to be done at WCO, national and regional levels for the timely implementation of the new HS edition. The WCO said it’s currently working on the development of requisite correlation tables between the current 2017 and the new edition of the HS, and on updating the HS publications, such as the Explanatory Notes, the Classification Opinions, the Alphabetical Index and the HS online database. “Customs administrations and regional economic communities have a huge task to ensure timely implementation of the 2022 HS Edition, as required by the HS Convention. They are therefore encouraged to begin the process of preparing for the implementation of HS 2022 in their national Customs tariff or statistical nomenclatures,” it stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .