 This picture taken on January 2, 2020 shows residents walking past destroyed cars in Bekasi, West Java, after flooding triggered by heavy rain hit the area. Indonesian rescuers mounted a desperate search on January 3 for those missing after flash floods and landslides sparked by torrential rains killed at least 43 people across the Jakarta region, leaving whole districts under water and thousands homeless.REZAS / AFP  Around a dozen people were still unaccounted for after record rains that started on New Year’s Eve pounded the capital and left swathes of the megalopolis home to some 30 million under water and thousands homeless. Around 192,000 residents have been evacuated to temporary shelters, according to authorities, with many unable to return to waterlogged homes in neighborhoods that have been turned into wastelands. “We’re encouraging people whose houses are still inundated to go to a safer place,” said National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesman Agus Wibowo. The agency said 43 people had been confirmed dead in Greater Jakarta and neighboring Lebak regency in the south of Java island. Waters had receded in many areas and power was being restored after being cut off in many districts. In hard-hit Bekasi, on the outskirts of Jakarta, swampy streets were littered with debris and crushed cars lying on top of each other  with waterline marks reaching as high as the second floors of buildings. The government said Friday it would start cloud seeding to the west of the capital inducing rain using chemicals sprayed from planes to prevent approaching rainfall from pounding the region. ‘Everything’s gone’ 
Using inflatable boats to evacuate residents trapped in their homes, including children and seniors, rescuers said they were targeting the hardest-hit areas of the Muslim-majority nation’s capital on Friday. Shelters filled up with refugees, including infants, resting on thin mats as food and drinking water ran low. “It’s impossible for me to go back to my home,” said 72-year-old Lumongga Siregar. “We have no clean water right now… and we’re hoping for more food because there isn’t much.” Mother Dewi Puspitasari worried about her one-year-old daughter’s health. “The blanket and mat I’ve got here aren’t thick enough for her and we’re scared she will get sick,” she told AFP. As Indonesians gathered for Friday prayers, a call went out for city mosques to take in and help desperate refugees. “Mosques also have a social function in addition to religious activities,” said Indonesian Mosque Council secretary-general Imam Addaruquthni. The health ministry deployed some 11,000 health workers and soldiers to distribute medicine, disinfectant hygiene kits and food in a bid to stave off outbreaks of Hepatitis A, mosquito-borne Dengue fever and other illnesses, including infections linked to contact with dead animals. In hard-hit Lebak outside Jakarta, residents started the slow process of cleaning up their deluged homes.”Everything’s gone,” said shop owner Aminah, who goes by one name.”I left it all because I got scared at how high the water was getting.” ‘Phenomenally bad’ 
Around Jakarta, a family including a four- and nine-year-old died of suspected gas poisoning from a portable power generator, while an eight-year-old boy was killed in a landslide. Others died from drowning or hypothermia, while one 16-year-old boy was electrocuted by a power line.Jakarta is regularly hit by floods during the rainy season, which started in late November. But this week’s disaster marked Jakarta’s worst flooding since 2013 when dozens were killed after the city was inundated by monsoon rains. “This year’s flooding was phenomenally bad because of the extremely high rainfall,” said Yayat Supriatna, a Jakarta-based urban planning expert. But Jakarta’s myriad infrastructure problems, including poor drainage and rampant overdevelopment, worsened the situation, he added. Indonesian President Joko Widodo has announced a plan to move the country’s capital to Borneo island to take the pressure off Jakarta, which suffers from some of the world’s worst traffic jams and is fast sinking due to excessive groundwater extraction. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .