As much as we try to deny it, skincare can be very tricky. Trying to find a balance between toners, serums, and moisturizers can be a tad bit difficult especially when you don’t know what they do and when they are to be used. Applying products in the wrong order could render them ineffective and in some rare cases irritate your skin. As a guide to helping you serve face goals in 2020, here are 7 steps to properly applying skincare products on your face: STEP 1: Cleanser For starters, start by removing your makeup and washing your face before slathering on your products. Your skin needs to be clean, oil and grime-free thereby allowing your skincare products to be properly absorbed. Makeup wipes often leave residue behind which could cause your skin to break out, instead opt for cleaning oils. Cleansing oils dissolve makeup (including waterproof makeup) without stripping your skin. After wiping with a cleansing oil, follow up with a gentle, creaming cleanser that works just as great for acne-prone skin. STEP 2: Toners After using cleansers, the next products to be applied are toners. Toners prime your face by acting as a foundation allowing other ingredients to be better absorbed. After cleansing, tap them over your clean dry skin every morning or every night depending on your choice. Before applying anything else, wait a full five minutes to avoid neutralizing the acids before they do their work. For oily skin, choose toners formulated with BHA (Beta Hydroxy Acid) such as Salicylic Acid and for dry skin choose toners formulated with AHA (Alpha Hydroxy Acid) such as Glycolic Acid or Lactic Acid. These toners unclog pores, dissolve blackheads and overtime prevent breakouts. Toner mix. Photo Pixabay  STEP 3: Serums Serums are shots of concentrated nutrients, antioxidants, and hydrators that increase your skin health when applied. The Vitamin C serum protects your skin firm inflammation and damage caused by dirt in the environment. While also brightening your skin and lightening up dark spots. Choose serums filled with hyaluronic acid as this keeps your skin hydrated at all times. Serum. Photo Pixabay STEP 4: Eye Creams Next on the list is eye cream which is much thinner and lighter than face moisturizers and should be applied first. As a rule skincare products are to be applied from the lightest to the heaviest and this rule applies to applying eye cream. Choose an eye cream that comes with a rollerball applicator or if you prefer you can buy one yourself. The rollerball helps with fluid retention, which constricts and tightens puffy under-eyes in very little time. Tap on a little eye cream on your under-eyes to protect and repair them. Eye cream. Photo Pixabay STEP 5: Spot Treatment Spot treatments are ideally applied at night when your body repairs itself. You could also spot treat in the morning if you have already used an acne-fighting toner, this way your skin is not irritated. Irrespective of what time you choose to apply your spot treatment, be sure to use it before you apply your moisturizer. Dab a thin layer of the spot treatment on your spot or zit giving it a full minute to dry before applying anything else. Spot Treatment. Photo Ren clean STEP 6: Moisturizer A moisturiser does not just hydrate your skin, it also traps the products underneath making them even more effectively. Choose a light, gentle, hyaluronic-based moisturiser that would keep your skin hydrated without it feeling heavy or gross. Choose a moisturiser with at least SPF 30 in it, allow it to sink a full five minutes after applying it before applying your makeup. This process can be done either during the day or at night depending on your choice. STEP 7: Sunscreen Sunscreen remains the last step to prepping your face. Sunscreen acts as a block protecting your face from the dirt and ultraviolent rays that comes with the outside world. SPF 30 remains the bare-minimum SPF you need on your face. Steadfastly following these tips is no doubt going to have you enjoying the well-hydrated, glowing face you deserve all through 2020. Using these products and applying them in the steps listed would help keep your face in prime condition all through 2020. Remember the simple rule to this is to apply light products first and finish up with heavier ones.