Bishop David Oyedepo | KanyiDaily On the heels of President Donald Trump of the United States revealing his intention imposing a travel ban on seven countries including Nigeria, false report emanated today that Bishop Davido Oyedepo was denied a US visa. In denial of the report, the US Embassy in Nigeria reacted to the story that the General Overseer of the Living Faith Church Worldwide a.k.a Winners Chapel was denied a visa by the Lagos office of the United States Embassy on Thursday, January 30. Via its Twitter page, US Mission Nigeria wrote: “#FalseNews Alert! Be advised, the reports making the rounds about a visa being denied to Nigerian Bishop Oyedepo are false. If you have seen this manufactured item in the media, help defeat this #misinformation by communicating to everyone that it is completely false.” Check out before and after reactions to the fake news that the clergyman was denied a US visa. #FalseNews Alert! Be advised, the reports making the rounds about a visa being denied to Nigerian Bishop Oyedepo are false. If you have seen this manufactured item in the media, help defeat this #misinformation by communicating to everyone that it is completely false. pic.twitter.com/H1pDwhf9XW — U.S. Mission Nigeria (@USEmbassyAbuja) January 31, 2020  People are wondering why the US embassy denied bishop oyedepo visa but granted Bovi; Well, it’s obvious that America does not want a motivational speaker to come & cash out on their citizens at a tough time as this but would welcome a comedian who can make sad Americans smile. pic.twitter.com/NZtX4h1BDW — BENJAHMIN AMOS (@KingBenjahmin) January 31, 2020  Bishop Oyedepo has levels abeg! See the way US embassy quickly denied denying him visa. If the Bishop wasn’t that important, they wouldn’t even comment. God when abeg? — Samuel George | Omo Iya Eleja (@motivatedgeorg_) January 31, 2020  The USA denied Bishop Oyedepo VISA and you are happy and laughing about it. Remember you are planning to leave the country too. That's how people will laugh at you too when they deny you. It's not village people, its just reaping what you sow. — PorPorRee  (@VEJ0ME) January 31, 2020  "The Bishop renewed his visa, last year, without any denial. The Bishop was not at the Embassy or Consulate yesterday or even anytime this year. Bishop has been in Canaanland all this week."https://t.co/vfXUdMbuby — Ohimai Godwin Amaize (@MrFixNigeria) January 31, 2020  Bishop oyedepo wasn't  denied visa. You can hide ur hate now. Thank you pic.twitter.com/QuvmiA5D3c — The Ekiti Senator (@Senator_Koti) January 31, 2020  Hundreds got denied Visa but Bishop Oyedepo made news. Las Las, If nobody talks about you, you are nobody. pic.twitter.com/wvREqYGbSE — Oga Ken (@iamKennethAba) January 31, 2020 