Justin Bieber | Photo Yahoo Canadian singer Justin Bieber has opened up about his health challenges revealing that he has been diagnosed with Lyme disease. The “Yummy” singer announced this on Wednesday in an Instagram post, in which he criticized people who have made comments about his appearance in recent months. Bieber shared a screenshot of the TMZ article which reported the news along with a caption saying people who had said he looked like he was on drugs “failed to realize I’ve been recently diagnosed with Lyme disease.” “While a lot of people kept saying Justin Bieber looks like shit, on meth etc. they failed to realize I’ve been recently diagnosed with Lyme disease, not only that but had a serious case of chronic mono which affected my, skin, brain function, energy, and overall health,” Bieber wrote that more details would be revealed in his forthcoming docu-series set to premiere on YouTube. “You can learn all that I’ve been battling and OVERCOMING!! It’s been a rough couple years but getting the right treatment that will help treat this so far incurable disease and I will be back and better than ever. NO CAP”   While a lot of people kept saying justin Bieber looks like shit, on meth etc. they failed to realize I've been recently diagnosed with Lyme disease, not only that but had a serious case of chronic mono which affected my, skin, brain function, energy, and overall health. These things will be explained further in a docu series I'm putting on YouTube shortly.. you can learn all that I've been battling and OVERCOMING!! It's been a rough couple years but getting the right treatment that will help treat this so far incurable disease and I will be back and better than ever NO CAP A post shared by  Justin Bieber (@justinbieber) on Jan 8, 2020 at 12:29pm PST  According to Healthline, Lyme disease is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi. B. burgdorferi is transmitted to humans by a bite from an infected black-legged or deer tick. The tick becomes infected after feeding on infected deer, birds, or mice. Symptoms include a flat, circular rash that looks like a red oval or bull’s-eye anywhere on your body, fatigue, joint pain and swelling, muscle aches, headache, fever, swollen lymph nodes, sleep, disturbances, difficulty concentrating. Bieber’s wife, Hailey Baldwin took to her Twitter page to address trolls who tried to make light of the diseases. “For those who are trying to downplay the severity of Lyme disease. Please do your research and listen to the stories of people who have suffered with it for years. Making fun of and belittling a disease you don’t understand is never the way, all it takes is educating yourself.” 