The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors Forum has condemned online reports that one of its members, David Umahi of Ebonyi State belongs to the PDP and the All Progressives Congress (APC).It described the report as falsehood packaged to tarnish Umahi’s image and make the sponsors and author of the publication happy. In a statement issued by its Director-General, Earl Osaro Onaiwu in Abuja, it said: “The news circulating online that Governor David Nweze Umahi said he belongs to both the PDP and APC is a blatant falsehood aimed at tarnishing his image and as distract him from his focus. “The author of the publication acted in bad fate, with malice and certainly with ulterior and sinister motives.“On several occasions and at all times even in the face of stiff opposition and blackmail, Umahi has always proven to be a committed party man. He loves the party and the Governors Forum, and they love and cherish the friendship and bond between them.”The party argued that the report is being orchestrated because of the 2023 general elections, insisting that there are more civilised and better ways of playing politics. “Yes, he like other players in the political arena, may have his ambitions and dreams, especially at the end of his tenure in 2023. He may aspire for any political offices at the Presidential Villa, which he is constitutionally fit and qualified for, but that will certainly be on the PDP platform. “We have reasons to believe that he may have been quoted out of context in the publication. We smell mischief. We see the handiwork of detractors, who are scared of his credentials and constantly growing legacies so far attained in the governance of Ebonyi State. “We perceive falsehood taken too far by those who are envious of the gigantic projects his administration is handling; detractors who hate the fact that in the past four to five years, Ebonyi State how become a huge construction site for infrastructure development. “Finally, we wish to state that Governor Umahi is dedicated to the PDP. We can say that he has never and will not play double standards, not with a party like PDP, which he holds dear to his heart,” the statement added. Meanwhile, Umahi yesterday debunked claims that he belonged to both PDP and APC, insisting that he remained a loyal and committed member of the former.A statement issued in Abakaliki by Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Uchenna Orji, noted that the governor was mischievously quoted out of contest.He said, “The state government has noted the online report in which Umahi’s comment was misrepresented by those who hide under partisan politics to malign the governor for their selfish reasons.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .