Ongoing work at Ilubirin housing estate Driven by the urge to provide accessible and quality residential apartments for its citizens, the Lagos State government has ignited a fresh push for early completion of the Ilubirin housing project. The move, The Guardian learnt, was in tandem with the State’s commitment to transform Lagos into an ultramodern mega-metropolis through its THEME programme. With huge housing demands, compounded by large number of people moving to Lagos for greener pasture, the state is faced with the daunting task of providing shelter for a population of 20 million people in a landmass of about 1,171.28 square kilometers. The project, which had Cyrou Builders as the main contractors, was abandoned for close to two years, before the Akinwunmi Ambode led administration jump-started the scheme, through a Joint venture agreement with private investors, who planned to inject private capitals into the project. However, after a review of the proposals received from various companies to execute the project, the state awarded First Investment Property Company (FIDC) the contract to fulfill the vision of Ilubirin. The new push gives fresh hope to subscribers of the public foreshore housing project being built on reclaimed land in Ikoyi Island, Lagos at the foot of the Third Mainland Bridge. Lagos State’s Commissioner of Housing, Moruf Akinderu- Fatai said the Ilubirin project is one of the several housing projects designed to transform Lagos into an ultramodern mega-metropolis. According to him, parties in the joint venture between the government and the First Investment Development Company (FIDC) have made commitment to the delivery of the project by the end of the year. “ Ilubirin Foreshore Estate is a project that is very dear to the State Government. “Despite a myriad of initial challenges and setbacks, I am pleased to inform you that FIDC, our partner, has lived up to our expectations, and even surpassed them in designing, developing and constructing a futuristic housing project that when finished, will be the envy of luxury property developers around the world. “Revolutionary in concept, visionary in design, and stunningly beautiful in implementation, Ilubirin Foreshore Estate is the flagship of our concept for an ultramodern metropolis which will stand head and shoulders above global capital cities as first among equals in accordance with our dream of a 21st century economy comparable to others all over the world. “At the heart of the partnership between us and FIDC is an unbreakable bond built on trust, openness and conformity to well laid-down international standards. Our partnership with FIDC is a standard Public-Private Partnership-PPP with Lagos
State providing the land and FIDC having sole authority for development, marketing and management of the Ilubirin Foreshore Estate. “Of course, we have maintained overall oversight of the project, in order to ensure that the Ilubirin Foreshore Estate is developed in line with the Masterplan for Lagos State. “It is a plan that has at its heart an inclusive vision of excellence in public services for all Lagosians. I am pleased to inform you that FIDC has assured the State Government that the Ilubirin Foreshore concept, while ultramodern and luxurious, will provide services accessible to all dear citizens of our great State”, he said. The commissioner also stressed that the state is working round the clock to make sure that various housing schemes across the state are delivered to cater for the diverse segments of the market. “For instance before the end of the first quarter, the LagosHOMS Igbogbo 11b Housing Estate with 360 housing units and Lagos State Affordable Homes scheme, a joint venture, located at Idale Badagry will give us 252 bungalows in an Eco friendly environment. “Before the end of the second quarter, the LagosHOMS Sangotedo Scheme will yield 774 units as well as the Odo Onosa Ayandelu scheme with 660 homes. “These projects will be passed on the public through outright purchase, supported by mortgage where necessary, and of course the Rent to Own Scheme. “In fact, keys will be handed over to Allotees of the Lateef Kayode Jakande Igando estate next week as a mark of our sincerity of purpose in reducing the housing deficit in the state”, he added. For the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Housing, Mr Wasiu Akewusola Akinderu-Fatai , one of the strategies of government is to involve private sector participation in the development of Housing Schemes in Lagos State. This, he said, is because, ‘we need faster and more efficient means of providing the much needed homes for the ever increasing population of the State’. “The policy of inclusion of our able partners has yielded good results as they have brought in their expertise and exposure thereby supporting governmental goals”, he said. Also speaking on the project, head of FIDC, Mr. Martin Kearns reaffirmed the commitment to deliver on time. He also disclosed plans to construct a bridge to link the estate to the third mainland bridge to ease traffic around the axis. FIDC Project Director, Wale Bamgbelu said there is “a collective determination and commitment from both parties to the timely delivery of Ilubiri, which will set a new standard for mixed-used housing estates”. He added: “Ilubirin will create a benchmark for future community development in Lagos state anchored on the concept of ‘live, work and play’ with not only residential offerings but also offices, shopping, new school, hotel, medical center, leisure facilities and a brand new Marina for the Lagoon”. Bamgbelu further disclosed that a revised master plan was recently completed, stressing that this will help in optimizing the Marina and “creating a new shopping spine through the new neighborhood”. Conceived by the Lagos State Ministry of Housing through Lagos Home Ownership Mortgage Scheme (Lagos HOMS) in 2014, was expected to usher in a new era of affordable modern luxury in the heart of the state. It was seen as key to mitigating the rising housing deficits in the state as it was poised to deliver 1,254, two/three bedroom blocks of flats. The project constructed by Arbico PLC, with urban design by international firms, GAPP Urban Designers and SAOTA Architects. The Premier Collection slated for completion in December 2020 is pioneering, mixed-use development that caters to aspiring professionals, couples and families with amenities such as schools, offices, shopping, medical, leisure facilities and Lagoon-adjoining Marina. The apartments are designed to cater to the city’s expanding set of aspiring professional and executive management residents. Beyond the excellent value, refined design decisions and enviable specifications are expected to establish Ilubirin’s first cache of residences as the most desirable set of homes in the city. As the population of Lagos increases, Ilubirin offers an optimistic vision for how the city can modernise. Pragmatic urban planning makes the waterside community easily navigable. Sharp-eyed security and maintenance staff to ensure that the environment is safe and clean for inhabitants. The wetland park, which – along with landscaped gardens and lagoonside promenades on the island – provide a necessary departure from the intensity of the city. The 29-hectare, mixed use development signals a new era in the lifestyle landscape of the city as an entrepreneurial, creative and cosmopolitan cohort comes to the fore. Ilubirin will set a new agenda as a district offering superlative residences, restaurants, elegant retail, exemplary facilities for medical care, education and transport infrastructure. The first units of residential apartments at Ilubirin slated for completion in the fourth quarter of 2020, will provide smartly-appointed and luxurious homes that represent unprecedented value for money.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .