By sanctioning the construction of Nigeria LNG Limited’s Train 7 project, the Federal Government and shareholders have solidified a path toward the creation of thousands of jobs, boost economic growth and makes Nigeria one of the world’s largest providers of cleaner energy, a former Managing Director of Nigeria LNG Limited, Babs Omotowa has said.  
 
Omotowa stressed that the announcement of the Final Investment Decision for Train 7 is a big breakthrough in a decade – long process fraught with uncertainty, obfuscation and danger to the economy. 
 
He added: “NLNG’s expansion project is truly one of the most important and transformational projects in our country. It will bring $10billion of foreign investment for the Train and gas supplies, and enable over 30,000 jobs to be provided during construction.
 
“I heartily congratulate the NLNG Shareholders (NNPC, Shell, Total and Eni), Board, Management and Staff for their untiring efforts and achievement of this significant milestone. It is a gratifying moment that they should be proud of. Kudos!”
 
Omotowa highlighted that the step is a significant achievement for Nigerian citizens. Omotowa lauded President Muhammadu Buhari, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, his predecessor, Dr Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu and the Group Managing Director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Mr Mele Kolo Kyari and his predecessor, Dr Maikanti Baru and other key stakeholders for actualizing the dream.   
 
He also commended several shareholders’ working teams, previous Management Teams since 2008 and many stakeholders, former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, Chief Ernest Shonekan and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, for their efforts and support over the years. He insisted that the unnecessary delay of the project in the past ten years and deferment of the benefits – employment, revenue for country – and the unhelpful distractions, were unfortunate.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .