• Swears in new judge of Ekiti State High Court
• Ogun appoints first customary court of appeal president
• Abiodun vows to respect court judgments Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi yesterday inaugurated Mr. Obafemi Fasanmi as a judge of the state high court, restating the commitment of his administration to strengthen the judiciary and promote rule of law in the state. Fayemi, while performing the ceremony at the Conference Hall, Governor’s Office, Ado-Ekiti, said his vision for the independence of the judiciary remained sacrosanct, adding that the three arms of government are crucial to the effectiveness of the rule of law in the state. He said that the good governance agenda of his administration had the rule of law, respect for fundamental human rights and unhindered access to justice embedded in it. The governor, who described the appointment of the new judge as thorough and competitive, charged the newly-inducted judge to share the vision of his administration in providing a fair and equal access to justice regardless of gender, ethnic origin, economic status and other social attributes. He urged the judge to adhere strictly to the tenets of integrity and
impartiality to strengthen justice delivery in the state. Fayemi also commended Justice Cornelius Akintayo who would be retiring from the Bench in few weeks time for his contribution to the development of justice sector in the state. In a related vein, Justice Mobolaji Ayodele Ojo was yesterday sworn in as the first President of the Ogun State Customary Court of Appeal. This brought into fullness the practical establishment of the Customary of Appeal since the creation of the state in 1976. The ceremony took place at the Oba’s Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. The governor said that the decision of his administration to appoint a President and other members for the Customary Court of Appeal was a practical representation of his administration’s deliberate plan to bring the system and administration of justice closer to the people. He further said that the court would adjudicate on appeals arising from the Customary Court, as the court deals with issues bordering on values, customs, beliefs and traditions. “Let me assure you therefore that our administration will continue to ensure equitable dispensation and efficient administration in Ogun state. “This special court is a practical representation of our administration’s deliberate plan and part of our commitment to bring the system and the administration of justice closer to our people, especially at the grassroots. The court will adjudicate on appeals arising from the customary court,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .