The Lagos State Government has urged all intending pilgrims who wish to perform the 2020 Holy pilgrimage in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through the State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, to commence the compulsory pre-hajj medical screening which is designed to ascertain their medical status. This was disclosed today in a statement signed by the Board Secretary, Mr. Rahman Ishola in his office after a strategic meeting with representatives of the Medical Directors of the six designated State-owned General hospitals approved for the exercise. Mr. Ishola urged all the intending pilgrims to approach any of the six designated General Hospitals where solid arrangements have been provided for them to undergo the compulsory pre-hajj medical screening seamlessly. He listed the hospitals to include, the Lagos General Hospital, Lagos Island; Alimosho General Hospital, Igando; Badagry General Hospital, Badagry; Epe General Hospital, Epe; Ikorodu General Hospital, Ikorodu and the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. Ishola stated that the pre-hajj screening became necessary and compulsory for all the intending pilgrims in order to fulfill the requirements of the Hajj exercise before they embark on the Holy Pilgrimage to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. While admonishing the intending pilgrims to take advantage of this opportunity by ensuring that they approach any of the six approved hospitals nearer to their Local Government of resident, he warned them not to patronize touts or quarks, saying that any result emanating from unrecognized hospital would be outrightly rejected by the board. He gave assurances that medical personnel has already been mobilized to attend to them cautiously and with every sense of modesty whenever they are in the hospitals for the screening. The Medical Directors of the approved Hospitals were advised to give the intending Pilgrims the necessary attention during the screening exercise. He noted that the essence of carrying out the test is to ascertain their medical status in order to prepare them mentally and physically fit for the energy-sapping journey and exercise. Meanwhile, the Board Secretary has encouraged all those who have already purchased the Y2020 Hajj form to start paying the Hajj fare. He emphasized that the initial deposit for the spiritual exercise is N1.3 million. Ishola urged the intending pilgrims to take advantage of the payment by installment opportunity provided by the Board and make payment before the end of March, 2020 when the opportunity lasts. He added that the sale of both Y2020 Hajj and Umrah (lesser hajj) is still on-going. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .