• NIMET Says No Cause For Alarm
The first set of rains for the year 2020 was witnessed in some parts of the country, yesterday. Rain fell along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, as well as in Calabar, Cross River State. The first rain in Calabar coincided with the first official visit of the Oba of Benin, His Royal Majesty, Omo N’Oba N’Edo, Uku Akpolokpolo, Ewuare II and his traditional council to the Obong of Calabar, His Eminence, Edidem Ekpo Okon Abasi-Otu V, Natural Ruler and treaty King of the Efik Kingdom. He is on a four-day visit. The rain started at about 5.45am and stopped around 8.17am.  It was slightly heavy. Also, travellers along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway reported heavy downpour around the Sagamu Interchange and Redemption Camp at about 4:20pm. They testified it was indeed heavy. The Nigerian Metrological Agency (NiMET) has described the pockets of rainfall as pre-season or false onset of raining season, saying there is no cause for alarm over the pockets of rainfall. NIMET General Manager, Corporate Communication Muntari Ibrahim, while speaking to The Guardian, explained that there has been an incursion of Southwest moisture winds over the last 72 hours, which pushed the Inter Tropical Discontinity (ITD) from 6 to 8.3 degrees north. This, coupled with the abundant dust in the atmosphere, which serve as condensation nuclei, gave rise to the occasional rain showers around Yenagoa and Calabar since yesterday. He added that there has also been presence of equatorial trough very close to the coastal cities, triggering the clockwise moisture influx. He, however, noted that the general increase in temperatures in the country was because the ITD pushed northward to about 8.1 degrees, as at yesterday, allowing influx of moisture laden winds into the country, thus triggering temperature increase. “Temperatures for next week will still be warm before the next circle of the harmattan. Also, the mid latitude northwards cold wave that gave us the low temperatures some days ago has cut off. So, it is warm NE from the Sahara desert operating presently. Bayelsa and few cities in the south are experience cloudiness and mist/fog, with few cases of low visibility, especially in the morning.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .