 Blessing Oborududu secures a bronze medal at the world ranking series in Italy. She now looks forward to the African championship in Algeria next month<br />  At the ranking series, Odunayo Adekuoroye and Blessing Oborududu won gold and bronze medals respectively, while Amina Adeniyi and Mercy Genesis efforts didn’t earn them medals as sickness prevented Blessing Oyebuchi from competing. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, Akuh said despite not making the trip to Italy following a robbery attack where he lost his international passport, he was happy that Adekuoroye and Oborududu eventually won medals. He added that the coaching crew would work on the rest girls for better results. “The performances of the girls were okay. It was a good start, especially as this was their first competition this year. We have all their videos and we have been watching them for corrections. “We are going to point out their mistakes to them and also show them the good side of their performances. Despite Adekuoroye and Oborududu winning medals, there are certain things we still have to correct,” he said. He stated that more effort would be put on the rest of athletes for a better results next term. “We are much concerned about the rest athletes who didn’t win medals in Italy. Even the Nigeria Wrestling Federation president, Mr. Daniel Igali is worried and we are taking every step to see them going through extra training, aside from the general training. “Now, we are preparing for the African championship in Algeria in February. And I can assure you that at the championship all the athletes will come back with a gold medal before we go for the Olympic qualifiers in March. I believe we are going to get a good result at the end of the Olympics,” he stated. Akuh meanwhile revealed the recovery of his passports among others of his belongings that were stolen, which thwarted his trip to Italy. “The people that took my bag have returned it to me with my passport intact. Hopefully, by the grace of God, I will be leaving for Algeria for the African championship in February,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .