Lizzo and Ariana Grande | ClickBinge The 2020 Grammy Awards was a night to remember and it was not just because of the golden trumpets handed out to the talented winners. Thanks to some of the star performers, the audience and viewers had memorable performances to hold on to. The 2020 Grammys offered up a wide range of performances, including hits from pop’s new stars, old-school tributes and a few surprising group acts. Here’s a rundown of the night’s top stage moments: Rappers on stage Lil Nas X  Lil Nas X had a big 2019 thanks to his crossover smash hit “Old Town Road” and the rapper took home two awards for that. While this is commendable in itself, the young star’s wild rendition of “Old Town Road” with a coterie of guest stars had everyone at the edge of their seat. He had a spellbinding set that featured a tribute to the late NBA legend Kobe Bryant, his jersey displayed in the background. A banjo-playing, bandana-wearing Diplo joined the meme king onstage along with the K-pop superstars BTS, campy country star Billy Ray Cyrus and none other than the rapper Nas. Tyler, the Creator  It was all about the energy when it came to Tyler, the Creator’s performance not to mention his use of pyrotechnics while wearing a pink and magenta color-block suit and a blond bowl-cut wig. Pop Divas Slay Ariana Grande  Last year, pop princess Ariana Grande had a dispute with Grammy producers about what she would sing but this year, there was no such issue as Grande performed a medley of her hits: from “Imagine,” she segued into “My Favorite Things” from “The Sound of Music” — the bridge to her own song “7 rings,” which samples heavily from the show tune. Wearing a skimpy pink lingerie, she closed her perfoirmance with a bit of “Thank U, Next.” We still have memories of the 26-year-old gyrating with her dancers on a bed and throwing one sexy slumber party. Demi Lovato  Demi Lovato is slaying her demons one song at a time and we couldn’t be any prouder of her. The songstress who is on her way back after an overdose in 2018 performed for the first time since then, singing “Anyone”. In a previous interview, she had revealed that she wrote the song four days before she nearly died as a “cry for help.” With visible tears as she performed, the 27-year-old brought emotional tears to our own eyes. Tributes reign DJ Khaled, John Legend and Meek Mill  The 2020 Grammy Awards performances could not have been complete without tributes and artists including DJ Khaled, John Legend and Meek Mill all paid respectful homage to Nipsey Hussle who was shot dead last March.  The tribute included a rendition of “Higher,” Hussle’s Grammy-winning song with Khaled and Legend, which they performed with a gospel choir as projections of the rapper’s image alongside that of late NBA legend, Kobe Bryant who died yesterday in a helicopter crash. Lizzo  Kobe got another tribute from “Good As Hell” songstress Lizzo who kicked off Grammy night by laying down the evening’s theme: “Tonight is for Kobe.” Usher  Usher, donning a sparkling jacket and tight pants delivered a musical love letter to Prince, as FKA Twigs impressed with a pole dance.
The late pop icon’s protegee Sheila E shimmered in a glittery green pantsuit as she banged out drum solos.