Chief Administrator of the awards, Johnson Anorh. The voting stage for the maiden edition of the GAGE Awards, an event that is pioneering Africa’s biggest gathering of internet stars, has commenced. The voting, which commenced on January 16, 2020, will have the main event take place on February 22, 2020 at the EKO Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. Announcing the commencement of voting in Lagos, the Chief Administrator of the awards, Johnson Anorh, disclosed that the organizers had opened its website for voting to take off this Thursday. According to him, GAGE Awards seeks to celebrate and spotlight the best individuals, brands or groups who have enriched lives in 2019 by leveraging on the power of digital. Such ones, he said, are using the digital to simplify our lives. The awards will recognize, celebrate, reward and amplify the eventual winners’ outstanding activities and contributions to the digital ecosystem in the out gone year (2019), he stated. In his words, “After a rigorous nomination stage which allowed nominations from the public, over 1500 entries were received on the GAGE website for all 24 categories”, adding that the nominations in all categories had been pruned down to a maximum of 5 in some others. Anorh further disclosed that a careful review was done by the GAGE Awards Independent Audit Committee and its Audit Partners, Price Waterhouse Coopers, PWC, the renowned global audit firm. He added that there also are audience choice categories which will be solely determined by the audience and that each of such categories had been reduced to the top 5, based on the highest number of entries received. The Administrator exultantly disclosed that some categories received entries from other African countries; adding that there are some interesting nominees in some categories such as the Banking App of the Year which include (in no particular order) United Bank of Africa, Zenith Bank, Keystone Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank and Access Bank. Another interesting category, he said, is Best Data Service Provider which, according to him, would be a fierce battle among the mobile giants; MTN, Airtel, Glo, Swift and 9mobile; while Breakout App of the Year has Opay, Gokada, Jumia Food, Piggyvest and Boomplay in a keenly contested category. The voting, as the organizers stated, would be opened on the GAGE Awards website from the 16th of January to the 9th of February, 2020. It would be recalled that the GAGE Awards is a comprehensive celebration of individuals and brands who have done astonishingly well by leveraging on the power of the internet to make life simpler and better. Poised to celebrate digital excellence, the GAGE Awards comes in 5 key areas: Innovation, Information, Inspiration, Entertainment and Commerce. This maiden edition will celebrate excellence in 24 categories with 5 audience choice categories, which will be judged simply by the highest number of votes from the public. The categories include: Online comedian of the Year, Banking App of the Year, Artiste of the Year, Breakout App of the Year and Best Data Service Provider of the year. The Organizers believe that for the African digital space to grow like its counterparts in other parts of the world, it is imperative that a recognition platform such as the GAGE Awards is created as it will set a standard that will fast track the pace of development already happening and inspire new talents.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .