Embassy of the United States of America (USA) in Nigeria has warned its citizens in the country to be cautious of their movement and take necessary security precautions where necessary in response to recent world events. It, however, noted that it has no specific information on threats, but that it was necessary to remind Americans in the country to observe personal security measures on a regular basis. “Due to recent world events, U.S. citizens should review their personal security measures. While we have no specific threat information, it is prudent to remind us of the personal security actions to follow on a regular basis. “Be aware of your surroundings; keep a low profile; stay alert in public places, including schools, hospitals, government facilities, places of worship, tourist locations, and transportation hubs and review and alter travel routes and times to reduce time and place predictability. “Avoid crowds and demonstrations; exercise caution when walking or driving at night; carry proper ID; review your personal security plans and monitor local media for updates,” a statement published on its website advised. It also referred its citizens to a travel advisory release of October 29, 2019. “Reconsider traveling to Nigeria due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and maritime crime, including hijackings and theft. Some areas have increased risks,” it reads. The embassy also advised American citizens against traveling to Borno, Yobe and Adamawa states due to terrorism; Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Kaduna, Kano and Yobe states due to kidnapping; Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross Rivers, Delta and Rivers states (with the exception of Port Harcourt) due to crime, civil unrest, kidnapping, and maritime crime.” Besides, members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) yesterday protested against the U.S. killing of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani and his aides in a drone airstrike. The Shiites burnt American flags at the Banex in Wuse area of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, while chanting songs and slogans as ‘Death To America,’ as they condemned U.S. action. They also demanded the release of Sheikh Ibraheem El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenat, who has been in detention. Meanwhile, reacting to the development, the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) appealed to Muslim youths in the country to exercise restraint over the death of Soleimani. In a statement issued in Abuja by its Head of Media, Ibrahim Aselemi, it appealed to the youths not to allow their emotions to becloud their sense of judgment to ensure that peace reigns at all times. According to NSCIA, the issue between the USA and Iran could only be resolved through diplomatic dialogue. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .