• Uzodinma promises them equal treatment in APC National leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked members of Imo State House of Assembly who defected from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC) to resign as members of that house. The party said by defecting from the party, which gave them the platform, they had decided to abdicate the mandate they hold on the pedestal of the party.
At a press conference in Abuja yesterday, PDP national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, described the lawmakers’ action as unpatriotic and an unpardonable betrayal of their respective constituencies who identified with the ideals and visions of PDP as the platform for their representation. The party also hinted that a letter was being sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to withdraw the Certificates of Return (CoRs) of the affected lawmakers. “These defectors are fully aware of the grave implication of their actions, to the effect that by their defection to the APC, they have automatically lost their seats and membership of Imo Assembly, as they can only hold such position on the mandate of the party on which platform they were elected, the PDP.” However, Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma has promised not to disappoint the lawmakers who defected from their various parties to the APC.Chief Press Secretary/Media Adviser to the Governor, Oguwike Nwachuku, stated yesterday that his principal, who received the defectors, promised to collaborate with them to make the state work. “Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, has assured members of the House of Assembly that he would collaborate with them to see that all the arms of government work in unison for the progress of the state. “Governor Uzodinma reiterated that political party is a vehicle to get to a particular destination, promising that APC would take the state faster to her desired destination.” “He has assured the defectors of equal treatment in the House, noting that most of them were founding members of the party who left recently as a result of the crisis that rocked the party in the state before the general elections.” While commending the Speaker, Chiji Collins, for placing trust in him and toeing the path of progress, the governor expressed happiness that he could thump his chest boldly and courageously to call Imo an APC state.The defectors include Chiji Collins (Isiala Mbano), Dominic Ezerioha (Oru West), Chigozie Nwaneri (Oru East), Kanayo Onyemaechi (Owerri West), Kennedy Ibe (Obowo), Uche Ogbuagu (Ikeduru), Onyemaechi Njoku (Ihitte Uboma) and Eddy Obinna (Aboh Mbaise).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .