Women and youths from the various wards of Oredo Local Council of Edo State under the auspices of the Insured Good People (IGP) yesterday endorsed the second term bid of Governor Godwin Obaseki. Speaking during an end-of-year rally for the state chief executive, the elated residents lauded the current administration for the numerous road projects and renewal of their localities that have positively affected them, hence the need to see to his return to do more for Edo people. Spokesperson for the women, Mrs. Pat Osarugue, said unlike some of his predecessors, “Governor Obaseki has remained a voice of the voiceless women in Edo State, constructing and rehabilitating dilapidated roads in the state, while ensuring that all pensioners are promptly paid their arrears.” She went on: “Governor Obaseki is a working governor and Edo State women have chosen to support him because he listens to us. He is constructing and has constructed several roads, and has also ensured all our pensioners are paid their arrears as and when due. “In Nigeria today, our children enjoy the best education at both primary and secondary levels, tutored by well-trained teachers in a conducive and digitalised environment. “Obaseki hates assault; abuse and molestation of all sorts against women. Edo State women have never regretted voting for him in the first tenure and would as well vote for him again because he deserves it. His second term aspiration is an opportunity for us to enjoy the consolidation of what the governor is already doing across the state.” The coordinator of the group, Mr. Edefe Osagie, said they had been searching for an advocate for good governance, noting that the Obaseki’s government had brought a stop to their search with his “impressive service ranging from the preponderance of infrastructure and human capacity development initiatives.” He added: “In Edo State, we are privileged to have a government run by Governor Godwin Obaseki, who has made our state a standard-bearer in a number of development initiatives. The state government has shown uncommon zeal in pursuing an industrialisation roadmap that is transforming the state into an investment haven for big industry players. We are proud of the meaningful projects executed by this administration and are confident of even more people-oriented projects in his second term.” Osagie further noted: “We will support Obaseki in 2020 because he is a wake-and-see governor. We will ensure he completes his eight-year term as Edo State governor.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .