The Nigeria Scrabble Federation (NSF) has disclosed that Scrabble remains the only sport, which has brought glory to the country at the world stage in 2019. The federation stated that the successful completion of selection process of 160 games to pick players that represented the country at last year’s World English Scrabble Players Association Championship, Wespac in Goa, India from October 15 to 20 and also winning the Wespac Country trophy as the defending champions was a great feat for the country in 2019. The body, however, stated that Scrabble, which has put Nigeria at the world map, as the number one best Scrabble nation in the world, deserves to be encouraged and given more priority in 2020. NSF also thanked their sponsors, NLNG RA Club, Total/Shell Clubs, Edo State Sports Commission, Lekki Scrabble Club, Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited, Port Harcourt, Loense Int’l Limited and the Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports for assisting to ensure Scrabble excel in Nigeria. Speaking with The Guardian, the Nigeria Scrabble National team coach, Prince Tony Ikolo, stated that the Scrabble team set goal was to come out victorious in the African Scrabble championship holding in Zambia this year. “Our outlook this year is to remain on top in Scrabble by bringing the best players across the country together for selection process for Alchemist Cup holding from January to March 2020. Three different Scrabble clubs in Nigeria will host the screening process. “We will also conduct Africa Scrabble Championship players screening. Winning the Africa Scrabble Championship and Alchemist Cup Scrabble tournament will assist Team Nigeria to continue to dominate Scrabble in the world, he said, adding that they will not rest on their oars to retain the top position. “We will not rest on our oars to remain on top. Base on the scrabble team achievement, NSF is calling on sponsors to assist the team to attend both the Alchemist Cup and Africa Scrabble Championship holding in Zambia this year. Scrabble team needs assistance from the federal, state, corporate bodies and well-meaning Nigerians to survive,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .