Some patients at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Ebute Meta, Lagos, on Wednesday described the newly introduced Electronic Medical Record (EMR) registration by the hospital as less tedious. They told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the e-medical record introduced in September 2019 had replaced the patients’ cards and paper files. NAN reports that the e-medical card bore FMC’s logo and name inscribed on it with a digital code. Commenting, Mrs Beatrice Agu, a teacher, who visited the facility, told NAN that it took her just 20 minutes to finish the process of obtaining the new electronic card. “I would have come for my card last year but I kept postponing it, thinking the process will be tedious, but to my surprise, it took me only 20 minutes to get the new card. “This will help to quicken the hospital’s service delivery to the patients,” she said. Also, Mrs Beatrice Alonge, a trader, while commending the new initiative, told NAN that the process of registration was made easy due to the number of individuals assigned to carry out the task. “The process is very fast and lots of people have collected their cards within a short period of time of their arrival. “The initiative is good and it will go a long way to ease the stress that patients normally go through to get medical attention,” she said. Similarly, Mr Isaac Chukwuma, a businessman, said the process was less stressful, adding that the registration fee should be reviewed downward. NAN reports that a patient was being charged N1, 250 for registration and issuance of the digital card. According to Chukwuma, the idea is good and innovative, but the management should consider reducing the charges for the e-medical cards. Also, Grace Ejike, a student, lauded the hospital management for the initiative, saying that it was long overdue. “The last time I was admitted here in June, people in the record department spent about one hour before my card was found; but I know with this e-card, there will be no more delay,” she said. The Assistant Director, Corporate Services of the hospital, Mr Olorunfemi Ayoola, said the EMR has helped to ease the stress of accessing health services being provided by the hospital. Ayoola said that the initiative was part of the several measures being adopted by the hospital management to upscale and enhance its service to patients. “Dr Adedamola Dada, the Chief Medical Director, is always keen on the delivery of quality and swift services to patients, and that is why this and other projects are ongoing,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .