Boniface Mutuku Munyao | Nairobi Wire A 35-year-old Kenyan man identified as Boniface Mutuku Munyao was arrested in his house on Wednesday, January 8 for allegedly having sex with a dog and then strangling it to death. The man who is a resident of Mbondoni village in Isinga location, Kangundo Sub County was on Thursday, January 9 charged to court. It was gathered that he returned home from an unknown place with the German shepherd dog on Monday and is alleged to have been engaging in bestiality with the female dog before killing it on Wednesday. The suspect’s last sexual act on the dog was on Wednesday, January 8, after which he strangled the animal with a rope. He was reportedly arrested after neighbours made a complaint of hearing the dog yelping at night. Area chief, Bethwel King’ele, said the man was living alone in an abandoned homestead. He said: “He was found having sex with the dog after some neighbours noticed a foul smell since the homestead which belongs to his grandmother is abandoned. “In his own confession, the man said he ‘defiled’ the dog for several days and later strangled the animal to death using a rope,” King’ele told reporters. Boniface Mutuku Munyao in court | Nairobi Wire The chief noted that dozens of used condoms were also recovered from the scene. “That is a very shameful and ungodly act which we cannot tolerate in society. Those claiming the man is of unsound mind should also tell us why he decided to use condoms on the dog,” said King’ele. Kingele added that Munyao might have been under the influence of drugs which might have forced him to commit the shocking act. There are also reports that the suspect is mentally ill. He denied the charges against him while appearing before a Kagundo court and he was released on a Sh100,000 bond and a surety of the same amount. The case will be mentioned on January 22. Oddly, this is not the first time the suspect has been accused of engaging in bestiality as he is alleged to have been caught two months ago engaging in bestiality with a neighbour’s sheep.