Kobe Bryant | Image: LA Eater When the shocking news of Kobe Bryant’s death broke, no one expected that the basketball legend’s life would be cut short so soon. Not even the American animated series Legends of Chamberlain Heights that depicted Bryant’s death four years ago. Kobe Bryant, 41, and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna were among the nine people who lost their lives when their helicopter slammed into a hillside near Malibu in Los Angeles County, California on Sunday. 2016 What is equally shocking is that Comedy Central premiered Legends of Chamberlain Heights on September 14, 2016. In the eight-episode of the animated sitcom titled “End of Days”, a scene features Kobe Bryant crashing in a helicopter. Bryant crawls half body out of the chopper clutching his trophies. He then passed out just as the helicopter explodes. Cartoon Show Aired On 11/16/2016 Legends Of Chamberlain Heights EP. 8 Titled ‘End Of Days’ on Comedy Central  RIP Kobe Bryant pic.twitter.com/FNVmOt4jrE — Brvndøn P (@BRVNDN_P) January 26, 2020  The eerie video flooded the internet not long after the news of Bryant’s death. The video has now been taken down from Comedy Central’s website out of respect to Bryant’s family. “Out of respect for Kobe and his family we have removed the clip of him and ask that you please don’t share it. “RIP Kobe and Gigi Bryant and everyone else who died in the helicopter crash today.” 2012 In a frighteningly similar way, a tweet from 2012 that clearly predicted Bryant’s death also surfaced and made the rounds on social media. A twitter user @dotNoso reportedly predicted that Kobe would “end up dying in a helicopter crash”. Kobe is going to end up dying in a helicopter crash — .Noso (@dotNoso) November 13, 2012  DotNoso has apologised for the tweet however he hasn’t removed it from his page despite requests from fans of the NBA legend. Could it be that both predictions exploited Kobe’s love of helicopters? Kobe Bryant is known for flying helicopters. According to USA Today, the Lakers legend often used his own helicopter to get to Los Angeles Lakers home games during his playing days. He once used it to ferry his former teammate Steve Blake to a doctor’s appointment. In a January 2018 appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! Kobe Bryant talked about how he loves flying a chopper. He also joked about not being able to fly the beloved “Mamba Chopper” himself. kobe bryant talking about how he loves flying helicopters on kimmel the other day… this is so weird pic.twitter.com/sbZwjwfBDe — kim petras (@litasadiamond) January 26, 2020  Kobe is widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players of all time. Bryant was an 18-time All-Star, 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, and the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP). Bryant played his entire 20-season career in the National Basketball Association (NBA) with the Los Angeles Lakers. He ended his own career as the third-leading scorer in NBA history, finishing two decades with the Lakers as a prolific shot-maker with a sublime all-around game and a relentless competitive ethic. He held that spot in the league scoring ranks until Saturday night when the Lakers’ LeBron James passed him for third place during a game in Philadelphia, Bryant’s hometown.