The Arise Women Foundation has offered free medical treatment to over 1000 residents of Kabusa in Abuja Municipal Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It also donated boreholes, bags of rice, toiletries, and academic materials to pupils in primary schools in the community under its ‘Back to School’ project. Speaking at the ceremony Saturday in Abuja, Convener of Arise Women Foundation, Pastor Siju Iluyomade, stressed the need to invest more resources in the rural areas to improve the living conditions of the people. She said, ‘’ For speedy development of any nation, the village is the first focus. Are the people at the grassroots not entitled to a good life? I am saying as a lawyer that we are all entitled to a good life,” she said. “We want women to arise and shine and flourish. That is why we are taking care of their health and teaching them skills to make money,”. Iluyomade disclosed that the foundation will organise skills acquisition programme for women in rural communities of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and other states in the country.She observed that the Arise Women would partner with the wife of Kebbi State governor, Dr Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu, to empower rural women in farming and other means of livelihood. In her remarks, Zainab Bugudu noted that women make up the higher percentage of the population adding that it is important to empower the women in order have a happier families and a healthy nation.  She promised to assist the foundation with lands for the farming empowerment programme in Kebbi State. The medical consultant to the foundation, Dr Ezinne Onyemere stated that about 1000 persons were provided free medical treatment for ailments such as malaria, skin diseases and high blood pressure, while children were treated of malnutrition and diarrhoea.According to her, an emergency case of Hepatitis B was detected from a patient and referred to the hospital.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .