Erectile dysfunction or impotence is described as the inability of a male to achieve or maintain an erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. Erectile dysfunction is the most common sexual problem in men, affecting around 30 to 50% of men throughout life but commoner as the age increases. Erectile dysfunction strains the intimate relationships of affected men, reduces their quality of life and causes self-esteem problems. Typically, erectile dysfunction is a complex condition involving many paths. As such, management may be difficult sometimes. It may also be a symptom of a more serious underlying condition. Secondary impotence describes erectile dysfunction in someone who had achieved and sustain an erection for a long time before recent events. Having an inability to achieve an erection or sustain it once in a while is no great concern. However, persistent problems should warrant a visit to your doctor. How Does An Erection Occur? In normal circumstances, an erection of the penis is caused by joint actions of the brain and spinal cord, nerves, hormones (chemical messengers in the body), and blood vessels. A problem in any of these processes can cause an inability to develop or sustain an erection. An erection may occur in response to touch, smell and visual signals. It may also be evoked by thought or memories. What Causes Erectile Dysfunction? The main causes of erectile dysfunction are Erectile Dysfunction – Image – Wikimedia The following are important considerations in erectile dysfunction are: How Is A Diagnosis Of Erectile Dysfunction Made? The first step is having a thorough consultation with a medical doctor who will enquire about the condition as well as prior sexual history. Questions will be asked about current medical illnesses (such as diabetes and hypertension), the use of medications (such as antihypertensive and antidepressants), and psychosocial issues. A physical examination will also be carried out to assess the blood pressure, heart rate, the genitals and surrounding structures as well as the body in general. This clinical assessment is followed by blood tests, urine analysis, and hormonal tests. In some cases, ultrasound scans of the penis and tests to uncover the cause of the condition. Special tests may also be carried out to assess the functionality of the muscles of the penis. How Is Secondary Impotence Managed? If a cause of the condition is found, a management plan is started immediately. The following are ways by which treatment is proffered: