If you found yourself ‘dating’ a woman who is only going out with you because of what she can get, what would you do? A man recently found himself having to come up with the ultimate revenge when he found out that a girl he was dating didn’t exactly have pure intentions. After meeting on a lifeguard certification course, the unidentified man thought he had met his dream gir after they ‘hit it off’ and exchanged numbers and social media details. They chatted for a few weeks before he asked her out to see a movie, which she accepted, leading to a few more ‘casual dates’. His hints to make things more serious were snubbed, but they continued to hang out for a while. Things took a turn downhill when a mutual friend showed him messages which gave away her true intentions. He was told what she had said about him by a mutual friend. The mutual friend shared text messages exposing the real reason a girl had agreed to a date. It turns out she was only interested in him because he pays for everything whenever they go out. The friend said he felt bad as ‘she often does this to other dudes’, and passed on a screenshot of messages between them. When asked if she was dating her latest ‘maga’, she replied: “Not really but as long as he keeps paying for everything, I’ll let him take me out more,” with a laughing face, before adding: “Girl’s gotta eat.” Armed with this new information from their mutual friend, he decided to serve her a taste of her medicine. After posting about his master plan on Reddit, many were quick to applaud the revenge stunt and he was even said to have dodged a bullet. He said: “After seeing this, I asked her to go on a nice date with me to a hibachi grill restaurant. I got the most expensive thing they had and so did she. We both got fancy ice cream and multiple refills on drinks. “I complimented her a lot and smiled consistently, before getting up to go to the bathroom and leaving. I was also her ride. About 45 minutes after I get furious texts from her saying that she had to have her mum come down and pay for it because she didn’t have the money on her and that we were done. I know it’s not a lot and it sucks because I thought she was actually into me but it felt pretty nice leaving her that way.” Do you think he got a perfect revenge or he went too far?