• Mother of four stabbed to death in Lagos In an unexpected twist of fate, a lady was on Tuesday accidentally killed after she was hit by a bullet from the gun of an unknown soldier recruited by her sister to allegedly beat up a neighbour at Seaside Estate in Badore, Ajah area of Lagos State. According to eyewitnesses, a heated argument had ensued after the deceased and her sister simply identified as Kamsi were confronted by their neighbour, a young man, for reportedly trying to move out of the apartment they rented without settling their pending bills. It was gathered that Kamsi called in the soldier to deal with the neighbour who insisted they must settle their pending bill. A tussle between the soldier and the neighbour led to an accidental discharge of two bullets, which went straight into the body of the deceased, killing her instantly. Though the unknown soldier escaped from the scene of the incident before the arrival of policemen who were called in by other residents, Kamsi and her unnamed male neighbour were whisked away from the scene by the police. In the footage, residents could be seen panicking and lamenting over the unfortunate incident while the lifeless body of the lady could also be seen on the floor. Meanwhile, a middle-aged woman who sells charcoal along Amusu-Igboro Street, Ijanikin, simply identified as Mama Yusuf, was on Tuesday morning murdered in her room and parlour self-contained apartment at Vespa bus-stop, Mile 2-Badagry expressway, Lagos State. The deceased was allegedly killed by a yet to be identified assailant who lured her into her apartment where she was killed. Eyewitnesses said the lifeless body of the lady was discovered by her children about five hours after she had been killed. It was learnt that the deceased had a telephone call while she was seeing her children off to school at about 7:00 a.m. prompting her to return home. It was also gathered that her killer lured her into her bedroom, where she was strangled before she was stabbed to death. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the crime but it was learnt that policemen in the area have started a manhunt for the assailant who escaped through the back window after bolting the entrance door from inside. “From all indications, it appeared that her killer is a well-known person to her. Nobody heard her screaming while the attack was on. The body has since been deposited at the morgue pending the outcome of the investigation,” a neighbour who does not wish to be named, said. The mother of four, it was gathered, lost her husband last year and she has been living alone with her children. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bala Elkana, however, said he had not been briefed on the issue by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .