• Reps Committee Lauds Destruction Of Terrorist Facility At Gujeri The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole has recorded another success against Boko Haram terrorists in the Sambisa forest area of Borno State. The feat was recorded near Bula Bello, when a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft, whilst returning from another mission, spotted a Boko Haram gun truck under a tree, along with scores of Boko Haram fighters converged around the tree on the outskirts of the settlement, ostensibly preparing for an attack against nearby troops’ positions. Some of them were also seen pushing another vehicle to a location under another tree in the area. In a statement by NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, ATF scrambled its attack aircraft to engage the location, neutralising some of the terrorists.   “Follow-on attacks were also carried out to take out some locations within Bula Bello, where the terrorists were tracked to. The jets took turns to attack the target area, killing more of them and destroying some of their structures. “The NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its efforts to completely destroy all remnants of the terrorists in the Northeast,” he said. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has applauded the gallantry displayed by the Nigeria Air Force in the destruction of terrorist logistics facility at Gujeri, Borno State.The Chairman of the House Committee on Air Force, Dr. Muhammad Shehu Koko, in a statement, said the development underlined the fact that ‘there is no hiding place for terrorists in the country.’ The lawmaker reiterated the House’s resolve to support Air Force in ensuring that Boko Haram terrorists are completely wiped off the Northeast. He said: “The House Committee on Air Force wants to use this medium to congratulate the Air force in carrying out night time airstrikes, executed on December 31, after a series of intelligence and surveillance.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .