 Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola (right), during the laying of wreath to commemorate the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration at the Military Cenotaph in Osogbo… yesterday.  He spoke after the special parade/laying of wreaths marking the Remembrance Day at the Arcade Ground, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the state capital He urged the people to endeavour to look around their neighbourhood and extend helping hands to orphans, widows and widowers whose breadwinners died while defending the territorial integrity of the country. Abiodun, who noted that the brave men and women who opted to join the armed forces should not be seen as mere statistics, but as martyrs who have come out to defend the country from both internal and external aggression. He added that the pain that comes with the loss of a soldier at the war-front should not be that of the family alone, but a collective one. The governor thereafter released 20 pigeons, representing the 20 local councils of the state and as a mark of peace. In the same vein, Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola urged all Nigerians to remain united and face the future with faith and hope by working for the peace of the nation to achieve the desired progress and development. He noted that the commitment of the country’s armed forces to the security and safety of the nation gives them confidence that one and indivisible Nigeria is possible and non-negotiable. Oyetola, who spoke at the Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration in Osogbo shortly after the symbolic wreath-laying, implored the people to engage in acts that would deliver a strong, unified and prosperous Nigeria. He maintained that the only way Nigerians could appreciate the sacrifices of the fallen heroes and veterans was for all to remain united in love and peace. “Let us all continue to scale up intervention in loving memory of our fallen compatriots and in the service of our veterans. “I commend the Armed Forces for strategising day and night to fight insurgency and terrorism and keep the nation safe,” he stated. Oyetola also said that his administration had been supportive of the veterans and the families of the fallen heroes through the implementation of improved welfare policies and programmes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .