An FCT High Court,  Nyanya on Thursday fixed Feb. 6 for the adoption of final written argument in a case of alleged armed robbery preferred against 11 persons. The defendants are Sani Mohammed 28, Godwin Okagbue 35, Babayaro Musa-Ayuba 46, Emeka Okoli 32, Chijioke Okwo 43 and Elendu Okorie 36. Others are Justin Anorue 33, Uche Chukwuma 32, Jack Omelinuniru 41, Chukwudi Okafor 22 and Geoffrey Ozomabu 30. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ikenna Obika and Chinedu Kongoso, also defendants are at large. The defendants are standing trial on a seven-count charge bordering on armed robbery and receiving of stolen property. Justice Peter Kekemeke gave the date after the defendants had closed their cases. Earlier, the judge in a ruling dismissed an application urging the court to re-open the prosecution’s case that was closed on Oct.23, 2019. Kekemeke said the prosecution did not deserve such luxury as the case suffered nine adjournments at their instance before it was closed. Mr Simon Lough, the prosecuting counsel, had prayed the court for an order re-opening the case of the prosecution for the inclusion of further evidence. The police alleged that on Oct. 16, 2016, at about 1:am the defendants conspired to commit armed robbery at the NNPC Fuel Station Karshi, Abuja is contrary to Section 6 (b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provision) 2004. The prosecution alleged also that the defendants were armed with guns, machetes, iron cutters and other dangerous weapons to robbed and threatened Abdullahi Arma-Yau. Lough explained that the defendants also robbed Ishaku Saidu, Managing-Director of the fuel station of his JMG generator and other valuables. Lough alleged further that the generator was received by Chukwudi Okafor and Geoffrey Ozomabu few days after the incident. The prosecution, therefore, said the offences were contrary to sections 1 (2), 5, 6(b) of the Robbery and Firearms (Special Provision) 2004. He also said the offences contravened sections 319 (a) and 327 of the Penal Code. NAN reports that the defendants had pleaded not guilty to the allegations levelled against them. Mr Habila Turshaki, Counsel to some of the defendants had prayed the court to dismiss the suit for want of diligent prosecution. Turshaki said his clients were charged for the offence they did not commit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .