The Radford family at their home in Morecombe | Lancashire LeeMcLean/SWNS 44-year-old Sue Radford and her 48-year-old husband, Noel boasts of Britain’s biggest family with 21 children and another on the way. Radford who is from Morecombe, Lancastershire, is expecting baby number 22 to add to her brood and is currently five-and-a-half months pregnant. She has a YouTube channel that boasts of 134,000 subscribers and an Instagram page with 194,000 followers who she regularly updates. She has described her latest pregnancy as ‘stressful’ because she has developed an anterior placenta, which sits in front of the baby instead of behind. Sue Radford | Instagram She posted on her Instagram page alongside a photo: “Just over 25 weeks and I feel so tiny this time around.” Sue has also said her bump is less than half the size of her last pregnancy and is unsure if the fact the baby girl was showing in the breech position at the recent 20-week scan has anything to do with it. She said “I definitely feel smaller,” she admitted. “I don’t know if it’s got anything to do with the anterior placenta because the placenta is at the front – but I had that with Bonnie and I still felt big with her.” In a video she posted to YouTube, she also said the smaller bump means she doesn’t have any back pain and she has plenty of energy. She said: “I’m feeling really healthy, got loads of energy,” she told her subscribers. “I’ve not got any back pain which I must say is down to the fact that I don’t feel as big as I have done with the others. “I definitely feel smaller. I don’t know if it’s got anything to do with the anterior placenta because the placenta is at the front – but I had that with Bonnie and I still felt big with her.” The news of Radford’s pregnancy comes as a surprise considering she had earlier said she would not have any more children. Sue Radford | The Radford Family YouTube Interestingly, she and her husband don’t claim any welfare apart from Child Benefit and rely on Noel’s bakery business to make ends meet. In December, she revealed her intention to take her children to Australia for a four-week holiday to meet a family of 16. Sue and husband Noel are parents to Chris, 30, Sophie, 25, Chloe, 23, Jack, 22, Daniel, 20, Luke, 18, Millie, 17, Katie, 16, James, 15, Ellie, 14, Aimee, 13, Josh, 12, Max, 11, Tillie, nine, Oscar, seven, Casper, six, Hallie, three, Phoebe, two, Archie 18 months, and Bonnie, one.