• Supports Establishment Of Operation Amotekun In Southwest
The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU) has called attention of government and the international community to the continuous siege and violent attacks on Southern Kaduna communities by armed militia. The union said the attacks, believed to be from “Fulani herdsmen” have gone from bad to worse. They lauded the Southwest governors’ launch of Operation Amotekun to combat insecurity, urging other regions to follow suit. A statement by Luka Binniyat, the union’s National Public Relations Officer, recalled several attacks on the axis, saying: “On the 6th of this month, we informed the world of the impunity with which armed militiamen sacked several Gbagyi communities in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State, forcing residents to flee their homes into exile in neighbouring Niger State. “On the very same day, Kasso, a peaceful Gbagyi community in Chikun LGA on its eastern boundary with Kajuru Local LGA, was again raided by these invading terrorists. “In that attack, Mr. Yusuf Sule (39) and his family were hit. The bandits killed his younger brother, Eli Sule (35), a father of five children, Danjuma Bulus (30), a father of four children and his cousin, Istifanus Auta (31), a father of three children. “Also, his wife, Ladi Yusuf, a nursing mother, was abducted with her six month-old baby. His younger brother Bulus Sule and his wife Rebecca Sule were also kidnapped…” He said the union is “shocked by the way the Federal Government and Kaduna State government seem to be overwhelmed by these cruel crimes. “The defenceless victims and affected communities are left to their own fate, in the hands of these blood-thirsty militiamen. It is sad that it is the same communities that are victims of these mass murders, kidnappings, arsons, lootings, raping and other mindless evils that are forced to pay their assailants huge sums to gain their freedom or that of their loved ones. “We believe it is this money the invaders use to purchase more arms and enlarge their operations against the next community. We fear that with the unchecked boldness that these heinous crimes against humanity are spreading, there is a systematic plan to wipe out our communities and take over our lands…” The union said recent attacks underscore the urgent need for a vibrant, government-funded and staffed vigilante organisation for every community in Southern Kaduna and indeed, the entire Middle Belt Region. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .