Lady Gaga and Oprah Winfrey | The Oprah Magazine Oscar award-winning stars, Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper gave it their all for their performance in the multiple award-winning film, A Star Is Born. Fans hoped a romance would also be born from the two actors’ on-screen romance and thanks to their undeniable chemistry, we all made up a fantasy relationship between the two entertainers. Bradley Cooper and Lady Gaga | Sunriseread “Bad Romance” hitmaker, Lady Gaga is, however, shutting down the romance speculations in an interview she had with the media mogul. Oprah Winfrey. 33-year-old Gaga had a sit down with 64-year-old Winfrey for Oprah’s 2020 Vision: Your Life in Focus Tour in Fort Lauderdale on January 4. One of the issues they talked about is the Bradley Cooper romance rumours with the talk show titan asking if Gaga really did hook up with her hunky co-star during the A Star Is Born phenomenon that swept the world over the past two years. “We did a really good job at fooling everyone,” Gaga admitted. “We created that.” Oprah then told the audience: “It wouldn’t have worked if you didn’t believe they weren’t in love.” Lady Gaga and Oprah Winfrey | Access This is not the first time Oprah is addressing the dating rumours as she has had a chat with Cooper about it in the past and also when she interviewed Gaga separately for Elle Magazine last year. “He said if they had been true, he never would have been able to look at you in the eye sitting at the piano,” Oprah told Gaga. “He said his Catholic guilt would have never let him be able to look you in the eye at that piano. How did you feel about all that at the time. You handled it so well.” Gaga later explained: “I mean, we made a love story. For me, as a performer and as an actress, of course we wanted people to believe that we were in love. And we wanted people to feel that love at the Oscars. We wanted it to go through through the lens of the camera and to every television that it was being watched on. And we worked hard on it, we worked for days. We mapped the whole thing out — it was orchestrated as a performance.” The chemistry between Gaga and Bradley was off the hook in the film and it earned her her first Oscar ever.