Dr. Seinye Lulu-Briggs, wife of oil magnate, Olu Benson Lulu-Briggs, has described the clamour for a private autopsy to determine the death of her husband as a ploy to manipulate the outcome. In a statement made available to The Guardian through her spokesman, Oraye St. Franklyn, she said the alleged cancellation of her husband’s January 25, 2020 burial date by the Briggs’ family was regrettable. The widow of the oil magnate, who died in Ghana in December 2018, said the call for fresh private autopsy was intended ultimately to procure a false report to use as the compelling tool in forcing her to set aside her husband’s last wishes as contained in his will. According to her, the unilateral cancellation of the burial, the fourth since his demise, was indicative of the unwillingness of her stepson to lay him to rest. Saying that the cancellation was unnecessary, she added that the excuse that her appeal of the High Court judgement was responsible for the postponement was untrue and grossly misleading. The appeal was made because her stepson, without fulfilling any of the three pre-conditions imposed on him by the court judgement, had gone to the mortuary to pick up the body of her husband in the company of her supposed nominated representatives, none of whose identities she could verify, she explained. Mrs. Lulu-Briggs viewed the action as desperation taken too far and part of a sinister plot to obtain the corpse for a sinister autopsy that would fabricate false evidence supporting the contrived allegation of her killing her 88-year-old husband whom she cared for and loved for more than two decades. She reiterated that should the unconditional undertakings imposed by the High Court of Ghana and allowance of the release of the report of the duly conducted autopsy on her husband be adhered to, she would withdraw her appeal against the judgement. Maintaining her innocence and unpreparedness to set aside her husband’s last wishes, she stated that upon compliance with the three preconditions of the Ghanaian High Court order by her stepson and the release of the autopsy report, the January 25 burial date was still achievable. According to her, it was her wish for her husband to be buried on January 25, 2020. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .