Unknown gunmen have killed two teenagers at Magama Jibiya village in Jibia Council Area of Katsina State. The incident, which occurred about 10.15pm, saw several people sustain injuries as one of the victims has been hospitalised at the General Hospital in Jibia. A resident of the area said the gunmen, who rode motorcycles to the outskirts of the community, launched the attack in which they also kidnapped about 30 persons on Jibia-Batsari road, among who were four customs officers. The source, however, said community members resisted the gunmen, which led to the shooting of two teenagers, while several others sustained varying degrees of injuries. “When they visited the area, they left their motorcycles outside the community and walked into Magama Jibia, with their weapons strapped to their shoulders. “They sauntered around and later left to where they had parked their motorcycles from they attacked the community about 10.15pm from all entry points, shooting sporadically into the air. They raided some homes, but some of the residents came out with sticks, cutlasses and other weapons to resist them. “It was while the residents were resisting the gunmen that they shot at them, which led to the killing of two boys, while several others were injured. One of the injured victims is currently receiving treatment at the General Hospital in Jibia,” he added. Relatedly, gunmen yesterday attacked several vehicles on the Jibiya-Batsari road and abducted dozens of persons, inducing four customs officials. Although information on the incident was sketchy as at press time, The Guardian learnt that those abducted were taken to the Rugu forest, an area where bandits and other criminal hibernate. It was learnt that the gunmen abducted no fewer than 30 persons, even as there were speculations about the actual number of customs officials abducted. This is the first time customs officials would be abducted by armed men, even as security has been beefed up along the road where the incident happened. Spokesman of the state Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, could respond to inquiries on both incidents. But a customs officer, who craved anonymity, however, said the state command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) was aware of the abduction of its officials. “We are aware of the incident and the matter is investigated. Since it just happened, there is need for us to look into the matter and make our investigations public, if necessary,” he said. He, however, declined to give details of the actual number of officers that were abducted. When contacted, the state NCS Public Relations Officer, Theophilus Duniya, said he was on vacation and could not speak officially on the matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .