NJ.com, a digital news content provider and website in New Jersey, United States has listed Sahara Reporters publisher Omoyele Sowore as one of 20 people to watch in 2020. Based in New Jersey, where Sowore and his family reside, the news outlet, owned by Advance Publications, said the list consist of people are “from all walks of life, from politicians and public officials to actresses and athletes.” NJ.com said Sowore and other 19 people on the list are individuals who are likely to have a huge impact in the Garden State and beyond in 2020. Others in the list include Phil Murphy, Lenny Dykstra, Charles Rosen, Vera Farmiga, Frank Pallone, Nick Suriano, CJ Griffin, Riley Sager, Ruby Felix-Curtis, George Norcross, Ramy Youssef, David Rosenblatt, Elie Honig, Rachel Zegler, Sue Altman, Marcheta Evans, Greg Schiano, 070 Shake and Sydney McLaughlin. Sowore’s activism and legal battles with the Nigerian government earned him a place in the 20-man list. Operatives of Nigeria’s Department of State Service (DSS) arrested Sowore on Saturday, August 3 after calling for a nationwide protest tagged #RevolutionNow. The protest, despite his arrest, took place in major parts of the country. It focused on governance and government accountability to the people. But the government said it was a veiled plot overthrow Nigeria president Muhammadu Buhari. The government charged on offences of treasonable felony, money laundering and terrorism. After spending over 124 days in detention and ignoring two court orders granting him bail, the government’s secret police released Sowore on Thursday, December 5 2019. The DSS rearrested Sowore at the resumed trial of his case with the Nigerian government. Sowore regained freedom two-weeks later after Nigeria’s attorney-general and justice minister Abubakar Malami ordered his release alongside former Nigeria national security adviser Sambo Dasuki. A letter of concern to Malami over Nigeria’s disregard to court orders by six US lawmaker- Robert Menendez, Charles Schumer, Christopher Coons, Cory Booker, Bill Pascrell and Josh Gottheimer preceded their release. The lawmakers said Nigeria risks tarnishing its international reputation over Sowore’s indefinite detention and that “it will best serve Nigeria’s interests to protect and uphold the very legal systems that provide for stability and open dialogue.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .