• Oversight as crucial as passing budget, says Lawan
• Buhari seeks confirmation of Obiora, Akande, Nuhu A high Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Bwari, has dismissed a suit seeking the removal of Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, over allegations of perjury against him. Justice Othman Musa, who dismissed the suit for lacking in merit, held that there was no evidence before the court that Senator Omo-Agege was convicted or indicted by any court in the United States (U.S.). The suit filed by the Incorporated Trustees of Patriotic Youth Organisation of Nigeria sought the removal of the senator on allegation that he concealed information about an earlier conviction in the U.S.Musa, yesterday, held that the suit was a mere waste of the court’s time, as there was no evidence that Omo-Agege was ever convicted by any court of law nor was he under any criminal sentence. The court, on basis of jurisdiction, held that Omo-Agege was under no obligation to furnish the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) with such information even, if the allegation was true. He consequently awarded the senator N1 million in damages against the plaintiff. According to him, the disciplinary proceedings involving Omo-Agege in California, even if it ended in punitive action, could not be elevated to criminal proceedings as provided under Section 66 of the Constitution. Meanwhile, president of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has challenged the 69 standing committees to embark on vigorous oversight on Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) under their jurisdiction. Lawan, in his welcome address to members from the Christmas break, said the oversight by the National Assembly is as important and critical as passing the budget itself.“We expect the MDAs to be cooperative and forthcoming with necessary information whenever such are requested,” he said. In another development, President Muhammadu Buhari has requested the Senate to confirm Dr. Kingsley Obiora as Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Prof. Adeola Akande as chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC).Both requests were contained in a letter addressed to the Senate president dated January 16, 2020 and December 24, 2019, respectively.He also requested the confirmation of Uche Onwude as member of NCC board.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .