 Manchester City’s Portuguese midfielder Bernardo Silva (R) shoots to score their second goal during the English FA Cup fourth round football match between Manchester City and Fulham at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, on January 26, 2020. (Photo by Lindsey Parnaby / AFP)  Tim Ream’s sixth-minute red card gave the Championship side a mountain to climb after he hauled down Gabriel Jesus inside the box. Ilkay Gundogan converted the resulting penalty before Bernardo Silva’s smart turn and shot quickly doubled City’s advantage. The visitors then held out for nearly an hour but two headers in three minutes from Jesus gave the scoreline a more accurate reflection of the English champions’ dominance. Pep Guardiola’s men have now won 17 domestic cup ties in a row. The Catalan is relying on more cup success for silverware this season after conceding the Premier League title is beyond his side with Liverpool 16 points clear at the top of the table. Manchester City’s Brazilian striker Gabriel Jesus (C) celebrates with teammates after scoring their fourth goal during the English FA Cup fourth round football match between Manchester City and Fulham at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, on January 26, 2020. (Photo by Lindsey Parnaby / AFP)  Fulham boss Scott Parker also rotated with his priority securing a return to the Premier League at the first time of asking. Any hope of an upset was quashed within minutes by a rash challenge from Ream. City has had problems from the spot this season with Guardiola even claiming goalkeeper Ederson is his best taker after Jesus’ latest miss at Bramall Lane on Tuesday. However, with the Brazilian on the bench with Claudio Bravo keeping his starting spot in goal for the cups, it was Gundogan who took responsibility to dispatch the spot-kick. A moment of magic from Bernardo then gave the hosts breathing space as the Portuguese international fired into the bottom corner from outside the box. Only a lack of killer instinct prevented City from further running up the score as Raheem Sterling came off the bench to hit the crossbar. Jesus, though, bagged a confidence-boosting double by heading home Joao Cancelo’s cross before nodding in the rebound after Marek Rodak had saved Phil Foden’s initial effort. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .