Selena Gomez is among the top five most-followed people on Instagram and at one point in time, she was even the most-followed on the social media platform. The 27-year-old singer and actress has now revealed her plan to quit her account once her new album Rare drops because the ‘gram is ‘unhealthy’ for her. She is currently using the account for the promotion of Rare but once that is done and the album drops, she plans to leave once again. She made this known to The Wall Street Journal on January 8 citing her mental health as the reason why she is quitting. She said: “I got back on [Instagram] because I was releasing music, but I just told my best friend Courtney [Lopez] yesterday, I’m going to have to take it off my phone again soon.” Gomez has a tight-knit circle of girlfriends who aren’t famous, have their own jobs and “do their own thing” that keeps her connected “to a life offstage.” “They know I have an addictive personality, and it can be unhealthy,” Selena added, referring to Instagram. This is not the first time Gomez is taking time off social media. In September 2018, the “Lose You To Love Me” crooner announced she was ditching the ‘gram for the time being to live life away from her phone. “Taking a social media break. Again,” she wrote. “As much as I am grateful for the voice that social media gives each of us, I am equally grateful to be able to step back and live my life present to the moment I have been given. Kindness and encouragement only for a bit! Just remember – negative comments can hurt anybody’s feelings. Obvi.” Gomez didn’t return until January 14, 2019. Selena told Vogue in 2017 that, “As soon as I became the most followed person on Instagram, I sort of freaked out,” explaining another instance where she quit IG. “It had become so consuming to me. It’s what I woke up to and went to sleep to,” she continued. “I was an addict, and it felt like I was seeing things I didn’t want to see, like it was putting things in my head that I didn’t want to care about. I always end up feeling like sh*t when I look at Instagram. Which is why I’m kind of under the radar, ghosting it a bit.” She told the magazine at the time that she didn’t even have Instagram on her phone and that her assistant had her password and was in charge of all of her posts.