In a move apparently aimed at reclaiming power in the state, the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday sought unity among its members and leaders as it prepares for the January 15, 2020 congresses. Its Chairman, Dan Osi Orbih assured after a caucus meeting with PDP leaders in Benin City that there was no crisis in the state chapter of the party. He said the January 15 date for its congresses remained unchanged and assured that the exercise would be hitch-free, adding that candidates would emerge in keenly contested, free and fair congresses.“Once again, we have restated our resolve to ensure that we win back Edo State. We express our disappointment at what is going on in the state. Today, it is no longer a story of 24 over 24 House of Assembly. “The Edo State House of Assembly has only 10 members. I believe PDP will reclaim the remaining 14 seats in the state Assembly and that will put us in the majority in the House of Assembly,” Orbih said. Orbih added that at the end of the caucus meeting, all leaders and members were satisfied that the party has put in place a very comprehensive plan to reclaim Edo State. While dismissing claims by some youths of the party who threatened to hold parallel congresses and primaries, should there be any attempt to impose a chairman on the party, Orbih promised a level playing field for all aspirants and assured the party faithful of a peaceful exercise. He also noted that the coexistence among members and leaders of the party during and after the primary remained paramount to ensure that the party took over governance from the All Progressives Congress (APC). However, The Guardian learnt that Senator Odion Ugbesia and Fred Okah are the two contenders to angling replace Chief Orbih whose tenure ends in March. PDP leaders who attended the caucus meeting are, former Governor Lucky Igbinedion and representative of Edo South Senatorial District, Matthew Urhoghide. Others are representative of Oredo Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Omoregie Ogbeide-Ihama, Chief Raymond Dokpesi and Kenneth Imasuagbon, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .