A 25-year-old cobbler, Olamide Babayemi, has been arrested by operatives of the Ogun State police command for allegedly raping and making an attempt to kill a 22-year-old microbiology graduate (name withheld). The suspect was arrested following a report by the victim who came to the Redeem camp police station and reported that she gave the sum of N18,000 to the cobbler who she has known for some time to buy a mobile phone for her. She explained further that the cobbler, who has refused to either buy the handset or refund her money, suddenly called her recently to come to Greenland Estate in Mowe and collect the phone. On getting there, the suspect forcefully removed all her clothes and raped her. The victim stated further that after forcefully having carnal knowledge of her, the suspect soaked her clothes in water and used his phone to record her naked body, which he started sending to some of his friends. When he realized that the victim might report him to the police, he made an attempt to sniff life out of her but she was lucky when the suspect’s mother called him on phone to come and meet her at the gate of the estate, which gave her the opportunity to escape. On the strength of the report, the DPO, Redeem camp, CSP Chris Amanyi, mobilized his detectives to go after the suspect, who had taken to his heels immediately but he was apprehended when his mother brought him to the station. On interrogation, the suspect who claimed to be the victim’s boyfriend confessed to committing the crime but blamed the girl for calling it to quit with her after she graduated from the university. When asked for his reasons behind the video recording of the victim’s nude, he said he did it so as to prevent her from reporting him to the police. Meantime, the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .