 Prof Danbatta, EVC NCC. Photo: TWITTER/NGCOMCOMMISSION  Danbatta spoke at the weekend in Abuja at the investiture of Mr Kings Adeyemi as the 19th National Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (NIEEE). He was represented at the occasion by Mr Bako Wakil, Director, Technical Standards and Network Integrity, in the NCC. According to him, such professionalism has been responsible for the successes recorded by the commission over the years. “It is against this backdrop that the commission is encouraging and supporting its staff members to join professional bodies of their choice,” he said. The executive vice chairman called on industry stakeholders to strive toward making meaningful contributions to the progress of the industry. “As a stakeholder in the telecommunication industry, I enjoin you to continue to make meaningful contributions to the progress of this industry, especially at our stakeholder’s engagement programmes. “Electrical and electronic engineers play significant roles across all segments in the delivery of our regulatory mandates,” he said. The NCC boss listed part of the commission’s mandate to include frequency spectrum administration as well as the management and setting of technical standards. “We also carry out devices type approvals, create technical frameworks for the telecommunication industry, take cognisance of evolving technologies and operational models, among other roles,” he said. Danbatta said that records had shown that NIEEE was a “highly regarded division in Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE)”. “This can be seen from the fact that it has won NSE’s Group Dynamic competition more than any other division,” he said. In his remarks, Adeyemi described the electrical engineering profession as the most dynamic, “due to volatile technological trends”. He called on other engineers to keep upgrading their knowledge so as to be resourceful and remain relevant in the digital age. “In order to be relevant in the affairs of the electrical engineering world, all electrical engineers must strive toward professional development. “As we aspire to leadership positions along the professional ladder, steady professional development is key,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .