 Sanwo-Olu, who spoke yesterday at the laying of a wreath in commemoration of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day held at Remembrance Arcade Ground at Tafawa Balewa Square. Photo: TIWTTER/JIDESANWOOLU  The governor said the citizenry had a responsibility to keep Nigeria on the path of sustainable prosperity and unity, as it is the best way to honour the patriotism and bravery of men of the Nigerian Armed Forces who died in the course of protecting the country. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke yesterday at the laying of a wreath in commemoration of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day held at Remembrance Arcade Ground at Tafawa Balewa Square, said that the labour of the fallen heroes would not be in vain if citizens remained resolute in defending the unity of Nigeria. He said: “Today’s event is very significant because it is being held in honour of those who laid down their lives to defend our country and keep it united. We will continue to celebrate their bravery and appreciate them for their efforts. As a nation, we must continue to ensure that all their efforts did not go unnoticed. “The event is also evidence for brave men and women that are currently serving in the armed forces that the government will certainly not forget their service to our fatherland. Therefore, to ensure that our fallen soldiers did not labour in vain, we must make a sacrifice for peace and unity of this country.” Sanwo-Olu, who reiterated the state’s commitment to working with security agencies to strengthen professionalism in the discharge of their constitutional duties, said that Lagos State would remain friendly and maintain non-discriminatory approach towards members of the Armed Forces seconded to the state for duties. He said the state government had also been supportive of retired military personnel and spouses of fallen soldiers, saying that no fewer than 2,000 members of Nigerian Legion, who are mainly ex-servicemen, had been engaged by Lagos Government to support security operations across the state. This, he said, underscored the government’s readiness to continue to improve the welfare of ex-service personnel and honour their bravery. Sanwo-Olu also disclosed that his administration would be catering for the spouses of fallen soldiers through empowerment scheme of the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation. He said: “We do not want the wives of our fallen heroes to live in abject poverty. Lagos Government will be supporting them through our empowerment programme being run by the Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation that deliberately caters for widows. “We will correct their narratives and I can assure you that widows of our fallen heroes will be targeted in our empowerment scheme.   We also can have a special social programme, which will target them. We will extract information and reach out to them. “We will make sure that in our next programme, we deliberately look for all the widows of our fallen heroes and give them empowerment. It is for the government to be able to give them empowerment so that they can continue to fend for their families and themselves.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .