The Director General (DG) of the Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), Oluwatoyin Gafaar ‘Bolowotan’, has stated that the performance of the Lagos State’s contingent at the just concluded South West Zonal Elimination ahead of the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival, was due to the preparation embarked upon by the commission for the sport festival proper. Lagos State on the final day of the two-day competition she hosted, secured 16 tickets out of the team events competed among the six states in the south western region. Speaking to The Guardian, ‘Bolowotan’ stated the state was delighted to host the zonal elimination for the sports festival. “It has been wonderful having all the South West converged in Lagos. A very big kudos to our governor, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu for a job well done. We want to thank him for his support, care he gave to us for the zonal elimination. We want to say we’re proud of him. “All the state contingents were happy and proud of the effort the state government put up,” he said, adding that the Lagos State did well in the facilities provided at short notice. “The story of Lagos hosting the events has very been impressive. It shows that we are ready at any given time. It shows that our facilities are in good order. We’ve always been maintaining them the ones we provided. “We are proud of what we have done so far and it shows that we are in the right direction. For the elimination, we prepared well for it. We did not only prepare for the elimination, but for the sports festival proper. And that has shown in the numbers of events we won. It is a good one for us,” he stated. At the zonal elimination events Team Lagos dominated in almost all the sports competed for. It is either the state placed first or ended as runners up for the slots. Lagos will represent the zone basketball (male and female), football (male and female), rugby (male and female), handball (male and female), cricket (male and female), hockey (male and female), ‘Abula’ (mixed), volleyball (female) and beach volleyball (female). At the end of the championships, Lagos State finished first, followed by Ogun, Ondo, Oyo, Ekiti and Osun states respectively.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .