 Tinubu  Most Nigerians had thought that Amotekun was a done deal given the political rapport between the Southwest and Abuja.As a matter of fact, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State who is the only governor on the platform of major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) jettisoned party affiliation to key into the Amotekun project, just like most Yoruba patriots set aside political differences to speak in one voice for the protection of their people and property, which records had shown was threatened by the alleged expansionists agenda of the Fulani, as represented by the lawless acts of herdsmen, of which the Buhari-led administration has refused to condemn. The suspicion is further fueled by the fact that the security agencies are headed and controlled by officers largely drawn from the North. 
 
But no sooner Amotekun was launched, than the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami wielded the big stick by declaring it an illegal outfit not recognised by the Nigerian Constitution. This was followed by series of antagonistic tirades from some northern groups, who accused the Yoruba of trying to use the new security outfit to destabilise Nigeria’s and declare Oduduwa Republic.
 
What followed were largely unprintable diatribes for and against Amotekun. The heat generated consequently put a wedge between the Southwest and the Federal Government almost tilting towards a constitutional crisis.
 
In the midst of it all political leader of the Southwest and stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu refused to join the fray. Many thought the responsibility to take a position and clear the air fell of the Jagaban Borgu, as the leading political figure in Southwest APC. 
 
Tinubu’s position is also critical because he is alleged to nurse presidential ambition to succeed President Buhari in 2023, therefore his critics believe that personal ambition must have necessitated his decision to keep mute while the controversies over Amotekun boiled over.
 
At a point some groups of Yoruba socio-cultural organisations gave him an ultimatum to speak, while others declared he could as well keep his view, as whatever he has against Amotekun cannot stop the organization, which has come to stay.
 
Exactly a week ago, Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), Afenifere, Yoruba Ronu, Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum and several individuals across the country challenged Tinubu to speak on Amotekun. Indeed some had even labelled him a traitor, who perhaps due to personal ambition decided to leave the governors at the mercy of the Federal Government.  The former Lagos governor, however, warned that, the peace of the nation could be torn to shreds by what he called the “dangerous rhetoric of those who should know better.” Asiwaju Tinubu said: “Those claiming that this limited, inoffensive addition to security threatens the Republic have taken themselves upon a madcap excursion. Those claiming that the Federal Government seeks to terribly suppress the Southwest have also lost their compass. Those who occupy these two extremes have sunken into the dark recesses of fear and political paranoia that can undo a nation if such sentiments are allowed to gestate.” Two significant developments however followed his speech, one there was a dialogue between the Office of the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the Southwest governors, Malami and the IGP, to look at the legal areas where Amotekun has come short. His intervention seems to have calmed frayed nerves as parties involved have now agreed to work together.  “It is not only in the interest of Yoruba race but also non-Yoruba people, Nigeria and also the image of the Federal Government,” he said.Durojaiye said if proper dialogue is put in place as suggested, the outfit would be of immense blessings to the Federal Government, which appeared to have suffered serious image problem because of the rising wave of insecurity in the land.
 
The senator added that it is imperative of the governors of Southwest and critical stakeholders including security experts especially from the region and who understand the terrain very well to sit and fine-tune whatever grey areas there are in Operation Amotekun so that the purpose would not be defeated after it takes off.
 
While he advised against any confrontation with the Federal Government over the issue of Amotekun, Durojaiye said, “I hope and pray that Yoruba will also embrace the spirit of taking a collegiate and common front on several other crucial issues relating to Southwest and Nigeria generally.”The octogenarian also dismissed the fear that Amotekun was created with the intent to declare Oduduwa Republic as some had insinuated.
 
In his remark, a former Minister of Defence, Dr Olu Agunloye advised against too much noise about Amotekun, saying more of strategy should be adopted than talking and confrontation. As for those condemning Tinubu for keeping mute, Agunloye said the former governor’s position was strategic and he cannot be seen to talk carelessly on delicate security issues like this.    To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .