All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Delta State, Dr. Tony Azuya, has embarked on a peace mission to placate aggrieved members of the party in the state.The frontline politician, who hosted two party chieftains in Asaba, said the move became necessary to ensure a united front for Delta North senatorial zone.He hosted Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Interim Management Committee Executive Director, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, and Delta North reconciliation committee chairman, Austine Izagbo. In a statement signed by his media aide, Francis Azuya, the Delta North APC leader reiterated the need for genuine reconciliation among party faithful.“Peace in the party has become inevitable to enable it take over Delta State,” he stated.He added that he summoned the stakeholders’ meeting at his residence to resolve pertinent issues. “We are also seizing this opportunity to thank President Muhammadu Buhari for the good job he is doing in the country, particularly in sanitising the NDDC,” he said.Describing Ojougboh as a man with large heart and goodwill who stands tall in all his assignments, he added, “We need more people like him in the state and country for a better society.”He assured Izagbo of his support in the reconciliation process of Delta North APC members. “I give you my own support and I pray this reconciliation process yields good fruits and place the party at the top in the state, at the end of the day.” Reacting, Ojougboh affirmed his support for the reconciliation process under the chairmanship of Izagbo, acknowledging the importance of a genuine reconciliation.“There is need for genuine and proper reconciliation for the party at the state, and we must open the doors, so that the infusion of new entrants will be a continuous affair. I am lending my support to Izagbo for the reconciliation process.” he said. Izagbo thanked the party leaders for their support, assuring them that he would put in his best for genuine peace to be restored to the party.“My job has been made easier working with these genuine leaders of the party who want progress for the state in particular, and for the country in general.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .