There was confusion at Du Merci Orphanage home located at Narayi community of Chikun Local Government Area ‎of Kaduna State when staff of the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in persons (NAPTIP) raided the home and took away orphans. The NAPTIP personnel were said to have carried out the raid in company of policemen from the Kano State police command who arrived alongside the co-founder of the orphanage home. Mr. Solomon Richard Musa Tarfa. It was gathered that the incident happened on Tuesday when the staff of the home were preparing for the New year celebration. ‎Confirming the‎ incident to newsmen, a sister to the co-founder, Mrs. Maria Phil Ariyo, said the orphans were taken to Kano State by the police. This is coming eight days after the arrest and detention of the founder of Du-Merci Children Development Ministry, Solomon Tarfa, in Kano State. A joint operative of Kano police command and NAPTIP had raided the Du-Merci home at Nomansland Sabon Gari, Kano, on Christmas day and whisked away Tarfa and 19 orphans under his care. Meanwhile, the family of the 54-year old social worker has cried out for intervention of the release of their love one. Narrating the development to newsmen yesterday, the distressed wife of the founder, Mrs. Mercy Tarfa, said the armed security operatives stormed the orphanage on Christmas day and ransacked the home for about 30 minutes without any search warrant before they finally left with Tarfa and the children. “While the officials were busy searching the home, they requested all the children to file out in their numbers. I politely told the security operatives that the children have not eaten and that I just finished preparing their Christmas meal. “Unknown to me, they have prepared their minds on what to do. One of the officers laughed and said ‘don’t worry madam, go and serve the children and serve us as well. Everyone would eat before leaving this place’. And soon as I return to the sitting room, I saw the operatives moving everyone out of the home in their vehicles” Mrs. Tarfa who lamented that the home has been in existence for the last 28 years with possession of all relevant documents and is registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), insisted the home was not operating an illegal social welfare.The spokesperson of the police in Kano, DSP Abdullahi Haruna, when contacted, sought for time to investigate on the matter before b on the matter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .