The Principal, Babcock University High School (BUHS), Ogun State, Dr. Bolanle Adebawojo, has stated that the school is committed to nurturing and training students in a conducive learning environment where they are motivated to excel. Adebawojo stated this at the grand finale of activities lined up to celebrate the 25 years anniversary of the institution. Speaking at the occasion, she said the school is committed to always striving for excellence in its pursuit for greatness and teaching students to serve and save, by training the heart, head and hand, thereby providing a holistic education that is second to none, Reflecting on the last 25 years, the principal said certain key players have impacted the school and shaped its development, noting that under their guidance, the institution offered and is still offering the best education by helping young boys and girls lay a solid foundation for learning to achieve excellence. According to her, the school gives students room for development in ways commensurate with the personality interests and abilities. Adebawojo said the institution, which had a modest beginning with five classes, 14 students and five staff, has transformed to one with six campuses spanning three states with over 2000 students and 300 staff. Speaking on future plans, the principal said the school intends to have a branch of BUHS in every state of the federation and to introduce additional external examinations like International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE), Check Point Examination and many others to promote quality education in the country. She said with the distinguished tradition and culture passed down from inception of the school, she is confident the institution will carry on her motto of ‘Learning to serve and save,’ rendering services to God and the community.
   Also speaking at the occasion, the Vice Chancellor, Babcock University, Prof. Ademola S. Tayo recounted the little beginning of BUHS and commended the commitment of staff members, past and present.
 He urged the management and staff to keep the vision of the founding fathers by upholding Seventh Day Adventist philosophy of education, which is holistic in its approach to learning.
  Earlier, during the week-long celebration, the school held an awareness rally to sensitise the Babcock Community. The school also held an anniversary lecture, which addressed the students on the challenges of secondary education and the solutions to problems they may encounter. Other activities include, novelty football matches, Inter-House sport, cultural show, Alumni Day, and Thanksgiving Sabbath to thank God for the journey so far. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .