Tax practitioners have been urged to leverage the many opportunities that abound in the new Finance Act.
 
For instance, under the Finance Act, Micro Small and Medium scale Enterprises (MSMEs), do not need to register for Value Added Tax (VAT), their Company Income Tax (CIT) rate is zero per cent, but they must file returns.
   
Also, following the report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) that 41 million MSMEs operate in Nigeria, the number of taxpayers registered with FIRS is over four million, and with the opportunities that abound in the new Finance Act, tax agencies were urged to capitalise on the MSMEs.
   
Partner, Fiscal Policy and West Africa Tax leader, PwC, Taiwo Oyedele, gave the advice at a workshop on, Tax Practice Management, organised by the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (CITN), themed: “Leading a Successful Tax practice”.
   
He said: “As tax practitioners, this is a compelling thing to sell. Since they do not need to pay tax but for them to have their zero return, it will help you. I guarantee you that many would want to sign your contract. Our services are so essential and critical for national development.”  She emphasized the need for members to work together to assist government towards achieving a sustained national development, and in shaping the Nigerian Tax System for increased revenue yield. Simplice added that it was equally important for tax practitioners to have a world view of tax issues such that their interactions with the tax administrators and clients are not coloured, biased or based on innuendos, but on the provisions of the relevant tax laws, regulation, procedures and processes in force at every point in time.
   
Towards having an efficient and effective tax system, she harped on the need for professionalism and integrity in the conduct of tax practitioners.
   
“This workshop is intended to enhance the knowledge, skills and expertise of licensed practitioners, intending practitioners, and other interested stakeholders on the ingredients useful to having a successful tax practice.
   
“It is pertinent that a tax practitioner is highly versed with ethics, standards and documentation procedures associated with the tax practice so as to be able to deliver value driven services to the clients as well as the government,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .