• Gov orders arrest of Fulani leaders
Plateau State Governor, Simon Bako Lalong, yesterday spat fire over the recent killings in the state, declaring that he is not taking the matter lying low. He stated this during a stakeholders meeting at Little Rayfield, Government House, Jos following the alleged gruesome murder of no few than 14 persons at the weekend by herdsmen in Kwatas village, Bokkos Council Area. Insisting that he was no longer seeking anybody’s votes, he said, “I order the arrest of the Ardos (Fulani leaders) and other community leaders until they fish out the perpetrators of the dastardly act.” Lalong, who lamented the incident, said he was waiting to be briefed by the Commissioner of Police (CP), Isaac Akinmoyede. The governor, who was visibly angered by the killings, barely spent 15 minutes before walking out of the meeting, after ordering the arrest of all Ardos and community leaders of Barkin Ladi, Bokkos, Mangu and Riyom council areas. Lalong was angered when Akinmoyede told him that no arrest had been made in connection with the attack in which no fewer than 15 persons were confirmed dead. He insisted that things could no longer continue the way they are, as permanent and pragmatic solutions must be found, adding, “I have changed. I hereby direct that all the Ardos and community leaders should be arrested and also order other community stakeholders to man their gates at the grassroots level.” He stressed that if the security agencies failed to carry out his directives he would be forced to leave for Abuja, adding that they should be prepared for whatever happens thereafter. Besides, Jos caucus in the Federal House of Representatives alleged that the Federal Government was not only complacent, but was also condoning the killings in the state and other parts of the country. Speaking on behalf of the group at media briefing on the worsening security situation and impending genocide in Mangu Bokkos community, Hon. Solomon Maren (Mangu/Bokkos Federal Constituency), said genocide has been declared on the people of Plateau. He argued that this was particularly so as the security agencies have neither arrested, nor prosecuted those perpetrating the killings over the years, just as government had made no categorical statement and policy on insecurity in the country. Maren stated this while briefing journalists in Abuja on the recent killings in Mangu-Bokkos communities where he said about 26 lives have been lost, lamenting that the assault continued for two weeks. The lawmakers urged President Muhammadu Buhari to show sincerity and commitment in tackling insecurity in the country, enjoined the International Human Rights Organisation to evoke the chatter on right to life and the United Nations (UN) to assist the Plateau people without delay. Meanwhile, a legal practitioner, Chief Garba Pwul (SAN) and a former Speaker of the Plateau state House of Assembly, Hon. Titus Ayuba Alams regretted the killings saying, “It is a tragedy coming at a time when the state is beginning to enjoy relative peace and stability through the efforts of government and some peace partners. Also, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Ubah Gabriel Ogaba, in a statement, lamented the incident and sought vital information that could lead to the arrest and prosecution of the killers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .