Celine Dion and Mother – Image: Instagram/Celine Dion Therese Tanguay Dion, mother of Canadian singer Celine Dion has died at the age of 92 following months of battling health issues. According to Radio-Canada, Tanguay Dion died Thursday night, surrounded by her family. Last year, Therese’s eldest child, Claudette Dion, revealed that their mother had been dealing with significant health problems, including memory loss and vision and hearing impairment. Tanguay Dion was a television host and philanthropist. Already well known in Quebec as a stage mother involved in her daughter’s career, she later launched her own line of food products, Pâtés de Maman Dion, and became host of a cooking show for TVA. She was also a sponsor of the Fondation Maman Dion, an educational foundation which provides school supplies, clothing and eyewear to underprivileged children. Tanguay Dion who was popularly known in Canada as Maman Dion was the mother of 14 children, two of whom had careers in music: Claudette and Céline Dion. Tanguay Dion played an important role in launching her daughter’s music career. She wrote the song “Ce n’était qu’un rêve” which was Céline Dion’s first hit, in 1981, when Céline was 12. In 2006, she started her own foundation for the education of disadvantaged children, the Maman Dion Foundation. Celine who is currently on her Courage World Tour and scheduled to perform in Miami Friday and Saturday took to her Instagram page to “Maman, we love you so much…
We dedicate tonight’s show to you and I’ll sing to you with all my heart. Love, Céline xx… .”   Maman, nous t’aimons tellement… Nous te dédions le spectacle de ce soir et je chanterai pour toi avec tout mon coeur. Love, Céline xx… . Maman, we love you so much… We dedicate tonight’s show to you and I’ll sing to you with all my heart. Love, Céline xx… .  : Richard Gauthier A post shared by  Céline Dion (@celinedion) on Jan 17, 2020 at 11:31am PST  François Legault the premier of Quebec shared his condolences on Twitter: “Sad to learn of the death of Thérèse Dion, Maman Dion for all Quebecers. A remarkable woman, so generous, so loving, who devoted her whole life to the well-being of her family. Our large Quebec family mourns his departure. My condolences to the Dion family”