 Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki. Photo: TWITTER/ GovernorObaseki  He gave the directive at the swearing-in of new Chairman of Esan West Council Area, Mrs. Ruth Osahon in Benin City. The governor said his administration would not condone graft at the local government level, noting, “We have seen a trend where a few local council chairmen have not lived up to expectations and as a people-focused government with a promise to the Edo people, we will courageous to take the right decisions where necessary.” Obaseki urged Osahon to cooperate with relevant authorities as they investigate records of the sacked chairman of Esan West Council, Patrick Aguinede. He said it is disheartening that the council with so much economic activity was among councils owing backlog of workers’ salaries. Obaseki charged her to ensure the payment of backlog of salary arrears owed the council workers within 12 months, adding, the ouncil should be able to pay its workforce, as it hosts a state university, which attracts a lot of business activities. “There is no justification for why the council should not be able to collect enough revenue to pay salaries and pensions and carry out other activities.” Responding, Osahon thanked the governor for the opportunity to serve, assuring that she would not abuse the confidence reposed in her. Meanwhile, Obaseki yesterday hinted that there were plans to reopen the state’s School of Nursing and Midwifery that was earlier closed down. Represented by the Commissioner of Health, Dr. Patrick Okundia, he gave the hint at the launching of ‘Nursing Now Nigeria Edo State’ and beginning of the year of the Nurse and Midwife in Benin City. “I would like to reiterate the government’s commitment towards the reopening and reaccreditation of THE Edo State school of Nursing and Midwifery. I assure you that work will start soon; we have engaged a consulting firm and they have been charged to ensure that the schools become fully functional and to the best standards.” “Provisions have been made in the 2020 budget proposal and by the end of this year, it is our desire to see those schools up and running,” he said. The School of Nursing was shut down in 2012, while that of Midwifery was closed in 2014 due to its inability to meet set standards and accreditation. Speaking, Director of Nursing Services, Mrs. Alex Enunwaonye, lamented the rise of quackery in the profession and urged relevant authorities to wade in and end the menace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .