Kano state Directorate of Vehicles Inspection Officers on Thursday declared about 85 per cent vehicle owners in Kano parade fake driver licence. Besides, the directorate faulted the tripartite engagement between the VIO, Federal Road Safety Corps and Board of Internal Revenue on issuance of vehicle documents, insisted such inter-agency arrangement was detrimental to statutory duty of VIO. The state director of VIO, Garba Abdul Gaya revealed the trend while receiving Commissioner for housing and transport in Kano, Barrister Abdullahi Musa Lawan, who was on inspection visit to the directorate headquarters. Garba who lamented the ugly trend of fake drivers disclosed the arrest of thousands of drivers who plies the roads with forged licences. The director who accused the state board of internal revenue of engaging the services of a consultant who issued fake driver licence on behalf of VIO, demanded urgent attention to check the situation. He cited prevailing cases of incompetent and underage drivers, attributed the attitude incessant road crashes in the state. Garba who challenged the activities of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on traffic management especially on state road insisted VIO is entrusted by relevant laws to vehicular management. According to him, “VIO under the law has the sole authority to issue driver’s licence and all documents that concern vehicles in Kano. We also want to draw the attention of the state the tripartite engagement on issuance of these documents. The arrangement is unconstitutional and not done anywhere.” Garba explained that despite infrastructural challenges bedeviling the sector, the department is concluding plan to unveil its computer based driver test and commence issuance of road worthiness to tricycle operators in the state. Earlier, Barrister Lawan revealed government strategic plan to reinvigorate the directorate, to measure with equal modern standard. The commissioner pledged the coordinating ministry’s determination to resolve cases of overlapping operations and functions of the directorate and the federal traffic agency.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .