The trial of suspected internet fraudster, Ismail Mustapha, popularly called Mompha, before a Federal High Court in Lagos, has been adjourned till January 15. Due to the yuletide vacation observed by the court, the trial could not go on yesterday as scheduled January 15 was chosen as a new date for the commencement of the trial, at the instance of Morpha’s counsel, Mr. Ademola Adefolaju who stood in for Mr. Gboyega Oyewole (SAN), and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) lawyer who were in court yesterday. Mompha was on November 25, 2019, arraigned by the EFCC for allegedly laundering N33 billion, alongside his firm, Ismalob Global Investments Limited. The anti-graft agency had alleged that the Instagram celebrity, who “allegedly perpetrates his fraudulent activities under the guise of being a bureau de change operator (BDC), is always seen with his little son flaunting huge amount of foreign currencies on his social media platforms. “Investigations have also revealed that Ismaila is only using the BDC business he jointly owned with his siblings as a decoy to launder his proceeds of crime.” He allegedly used Ismalob to retain over N18 billion between 2015 and 2019. While accusing him of not complying with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Federal Ministry of Trades and Investment rules in carrying out financial transactions, EFCC further alleged that Mompha and his firm unlawfully negotiated a Foreign Exchange transaction of N630,125,900 for some individuals. Those listed in the charge as having business deals with the defendantinclude Mr. Ikechukwu Onuzulike, Mr. Ojei Osemike, Mr. Okafor lkenna and M. Tony Global Communications. Their offences contravene Sections 18(c) and 15(2)(d) of the Money Laundering Prohibition Act, 2011 as amended and punishable under Section 15 (3) of the same Act. Mompha had pleaded not guilty to all the counts and admitted to bail by Justice Mohammed Liman. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .