– PCN admits 121 newly qualified Igbinedion varsity graduates Vice-Chancellor of the Igbinedion University Okada (IUO), Edo State, Professor Lawrence Ezemonye, yesterday asked the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) to evolve measures capable of tackling quackery and fake drugs in the country’s healthcare system. Ezemonye, who stated this at the ninth Oath Taking and Induction ceremony of the 2018/2019 pharmacy graduates at the Igbinedion University, said the high demand for pharmacists in the health sector was hinged on the fact that they help to maximise health outcomes and prevent medication errors. He urged the PCN to advance digital innovation in pharmacy to include electronic prescriptions, robotics for central presumption, processing and nationwide monitoring of quacks and fake drugs. He commended the role of PCN in regulating the training of pharmacists in the country, adding that their oversight function in drug management and their major innovation in medication therapy remained outstanding. Decrying the menace of quackery and fake drugs, Ezemonye urged the newly qualified graduate pharmacists to uphold the highest standards in the profession. “As part of its teaching and research functions, the Igbinedion University has sponsored some of its teaching staff on short courses in Nigeria and overseas, in addition to the sponsorship of some of the lecturers for advanced degrees,” Ezemonye added. Speaking, Chairman, Board of Fellows of PCN, Professor Mbang Nyong Femi-Oyewo said the institution was a leading university in the study of Pharmacy and urged the inductees to excel in their career. Responding, Registrar of PCN, Pharm. N.A.E. Mohammed charged the inductees to adhere strictly to the ethics of the profession and eschew internal rivalry in the medical profession. Mohammed said the government was in the process of enacting laws to tackle quackery and fake drugs in the country’s healthcare sector following new legislation that would soon be made public. Dean, college of Pharmacy of Igbinedion University, Dr. Ighodaro Igbe, said no fewer than 121 graduates of the College of Pharmacy made the list those released for induction just as he urged them to practice within the precincts of the laws prescribed for the profession.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .