Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike yesterday declared that there will be no honour and recognition for military personnel involved in the snatching of ballot boxes and election rigging. He insisted that Nigerians and even God in Heaven would never honour or recognise such officers, just as he urged the military to exhibit professionalism in their conduct. Wike made the assertion during an inter-denominational Church Service to mark the 2020 Armed Forces Remembrance Day at the Saint Peter’s Anglican Church,  Rumuepirikom yesterday. His words: “We are not honouring those who are unprofessional and carry ballot boxes to influence the electoral process. I urge members of the Armed Forces to choose the right path in the interest of the country. “It is unfortunate that the military has lost its integrity because of some unprofessional personnel. Nobody is afraid of the military because of their unprofessional conduct. Heaven will never remember those who come to rig election or kill Rivers people.” Governor Wike said Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mamood Yakubu’ admittance that security agencies were responsible for the electoral malpractices that marred the last elections had vindicated him. He said, “I thank God that the chairman of INEC has owned up that the problem with elections is the security agencies. This confirms all I have said in the past.” He, however, commended the Armed Forces for preserving the unity of the country, adding, “But for them, kidnappers, cultists, terrorists and armed robbers would have taken over the country.” Governor Wike also canvassed the institution of a reward system to encourage soldiers to put in their best for the country. In his sermon titled, “Faithfulness in Service: The Hallmark of a True Soldier, Venerable Samuel Chimele urged soldiers to be professional in the discharge of their duties, saying, “As we remember our fallen heroes, be professional.  There are temptations to be unprofessional, but strive to be professional in you calling.” He said military officers who engage in unprofessional acts would not be recognised in the long run, even when they enjoy the earthly promotion. The cleric said military personnel have no business attempting to enthrone different levels of leadership in the country, stressing that they should focus on providing security and defending the nation’s territorial integrity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .