Sejal Sharma Sejal Sharma, a 26-year-old Indian TV actor has committed suicide at her Mumbai flat yesterday January 24. The film star’s last appearance was in Star Plus Show, Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji. On the show, she played the character Simmi Khosla, the adoptive sister of the lead actor. The actress was found hanging in her room at around 5 am. A suicide note found on her stated that nobody should be blamed for her suicide. Police said that the cause of death is being investigated. The Kashimira police have registered a case of accidental death. Two of her friends, including a roommate who were reportedly in the flat are being questioned. Sejal Sharma The news of her death has been confirmed by her co-actor Aru K Verma who the Times of India quoted as saying: “Yes, this is true. I am shocked to hear the news. It’s very difficult for me to believe as I had met her just 10 days ago and we had even chatted on Whatsapp on Sunday. I am unable to come to terms with the news. I met her 10 days back and she was absolutely fine. We hadn’t met since last three-four months as I had also gone to my hometown, so when we met 10 days ago, she looked perfect. Her family discovered the news today morning, but I think she committed suicide yesterday night. Her family has taken her body to Udaipur for her last rites. He added: “She was like a sister to me. She also tied rakhi to me in real-life. We shared a close bond and I am shaken. We were always connected to each other. I am unable to talk right now,” he added. The Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji lead, Jasmin Bhasin also said: “I’m shocked and disturbed because she was a very happy girl and we would get along really well. I don’t see any reason why did she do that. But, it’s very sad.” The Times of India reports that her friends said on condition of anonymity that Sejal was under depression after her television show came to an end. She was looking for work but nothing had come her way. Police are also investigating the love angle as some of her friends have hinted at a relationship angle that had added to her depression. Seja Sharma Sejal has earlier been a part of advertisements such as Vivo with Aamir Khan and Usha Fans with cricketers Rohit Sharma and Hardik Pandya. She has also appeared in a web series, Azad Parinde. Her big debut on Indian television happened with Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji. In of her early interactions, the actress was heard saying: “This is my first TV show (Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji). I am happy to be part of the Dil Toh Happy Hai Ji. Since childhood, I have wished to become an actor, and finally, my wishes have come true. I am an avid watcher of television and feel proud that I am now part of this industry. Along with acting, I love dancing. My character is very interesting and will bring a big twist in the show.” The late actress belonged to Udaipur and had come to Mumbai in 2017. In an earlier interview, she revealed that it was difficult to convince her middle-class parents to allow her to pursue a career in acting. According to the reports in TellyChakkar, the actress enjoyed acting and dancing and loved working. The news of her death as shaken the entire TV industry.