Recent uproar and even debate over the first family’s entitlement to the presidential jets are good for probity and accountability of our national assets, though bad for the floundering image of President Muhammadu Buhari. Upon him now, more than ever is the burden of bequeathing a lasting legacy that matches his persona with conduct around his presidency.  
 
The furore actually began when images of Buhari’s daughter, Hanan, disembarking the Presidential jet in Bauchi State hit the social media and sent it on overdrive. Hanan, a young graduate of photography from Ravensbourne University, London, was on a private assignment to take photos and make a catalog of Bauchi arts and culture as part of her pet project. The photos and video that followed set tongues wagging in heavy criticism of both the first family and the presidency over the propriety of such luxury at the public’s expense.
 
We don’t get it twisted: We are aware that privileges often accompany public offices and the presidency is never an exception. Lest we forget, the African societies traditionally prioritise the wellbeing of the royal family and the story has not completely changed in the modern system of governance. We are also conscious that we do not operate an elected monarchy. The enormousness and sensitivity of the office warrant privileges to protect and make the holders more comfortable, reduce distractions and enhance efficiency in the discharge of public duties.  After all, what economic sense is parading 10 exotic airplanes that have made the Presidential Air Fleet (PAF) about the largest airline in the country amid recession? The Vice President once started hopping on chartered helicopters to crisscross the country, just like other world leaders would do to cut cost. However, the dramatic change in fortunes of the presidential fleet and its surplus to requirement of Buhari’s children would shock many. It is indeed contrary to this administration’s earlier disposition, especially at a time the government is seeking to borrow $30 billion to fund projects and demanding more tax revenue to actually sink more Nigerians into poverty than the government hopes to raise.
 
It is bad enough that Hanan used the presidential jet to attend social function cum private business at the public’s expense. It is worse than the presidency and Mrs. Aisha Buhari, did put up puerile arguments in its defence. A good adviser and better discretion would have suggested a private jet charter, at less than a million naira, to help Hanan execute her project and save the presidency this embarrassment.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .