Gov. Sanwo-Olu (second left); Deputy Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Wasiu Sanni Eshilokun (left) ; Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Foluso Dipe, during the inspection of Urban Regeneration sites in Lagos Island… yesterday. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, restated his administration’s commitment to urban regeneration, saying Lagos truly needs regeneration, especially Lagos Island. The Governor, accompanied by the Deputy Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Sanni Eshinlokun and members of the State Executive Council, including the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako, went round the Onala playing ground, demolished Jankara Market, Isale gangan regeneration site, Adeniji Adele, Ebute Elefun and some areas around Idumagbo, designated for redevelopment. He promised his administration would ensure a complete renewal of the entire community: building of drainage channels, road upgrade and construction to ease vehicular movements. Sanwo-Olu had, during electioneering spoken on the need for urban renewal, especially in some communities in Lagos Island. The governor also said sincerity was one major issue militating against urban redevelopment in the state. He said: “When you want to take people’s property and you want to regenerate, they must first see sincerity of purpose. What are the additional plans that you have for them before you could regenerate?” He assured Lagos residents his administration would provide a stopgap for, at least, two to three years, adding: “you need to do what we call proper enumeration. “Once you can enumerate properly and determine who the original owners are, and you have an agreement, then the regeneration will start.” He also assured his administration would work out a proper model before embarking on the project to ensure strong confidence. Speaking on the Governor’s visit, the Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Salako said Lagos Island regeneration plan was an important focal point for urban renewal, noting that it was the heart of Lagos; Isale Eko, which is a historical centre. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .