Insists on collegiate leadership Senator Biodun Olujimi (Ekiti South) has said that the only way to wrest power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state in 2022 is to elect State Working Committee (SWC) members that will unify the party at the coming congress. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senator said the best way for the PDP to become stronger in Ekiti ahead of the election was by adopting collegiate leadership to fortify the party and give every member a sense of belonging. In her statement to PDP members in Ado Ekiti yesterday, Mrs. Olujimi said: “As the congress draws near, we must work together to instal a strong, passionate, honest, vibrant, fair, loyal and committed party man, who will unite and not divide us, as chairman.” The former Senate Minority Leader added that it would be great disservice to members of the party yearning for good, focused and committed leadership, for anybody to contemplate “imposed leadership” at this time against the wishes of teeming loyal party members. Olujimi and former Governor Ayodele Fayose had been locked in protracted battle over the control of the party structure in the state, which created division within the PDP. Her words, “Our sole agenda will be Ekiti first, PDP next. Any hidden agenda to perpetuate undemocratic and punitive tendencies in PDP will be resisted.“I urge that we all work together to restore the glory of our party because it is crystal clear that God will only instal whom he pleases.” On her recent judicial victory where she floored Dayo Adeyeye of the APC, Olujimi praised APC national leader, Bola Tinubu; the Senate president, Ahmad Lawan; and Ekiti State governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for their support in the litigation. “I have been in the system long enough to know that anything is possible where there are ungodly people who don’t bat an eyelid in the quest to divert the truth. “Therefore, I wish to commend Governor Fayemi, Tinubu, and Senator Lawan. I know your commitment to your party. Thank you for allowing God and justice to prevail,” she said. Expressing appreciation to Fayose for tendering public apology for campaigning against her candidacy in the 2019 election, she said it was rare for a man of Fayose’s standing to admit guilt under this circumstance. “To those who are bitter about the judgement for one reason or another, please find it in your heart to accept that only God gives power. Your time will also come when your enemies will push you to greatness. I bear no grudge. “I believe in the PDP and its ideals. There might be differences, but it’s the best party. I am happy to be a member and I promise to do all within my power to strengthen and reposition it for greater opportunities in Ekiti and beyond,” she said. The senator commended the PDP National Chairman, Chief Uche Secondus; the South West zonal Chairman, Dr. Eddy Olafeso; and the National Working Committee (NWC) for standing by her to reclaim her mandate through the court.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .