Cristiano Ronaldo | AS English – Diario AS Football star, Cristiano Ronaldo recently celebrated reaching a whopping 200 million followers on Instagram but it appears his story might be ‘ronbelievable’. Ronaldo posted a compilation of his Insta pictures in a video, captioned: “Wow 200 million!!! Thank you to each and every one of you for sharing this journey with me every day!!” [] A study by HypeAuditor, a site that analyses Instagram and YouTube influencers, has suggested that over 50 million of the football star’s followers are fake. CR7 as he is fondly called had uploaded a celebratory video to Instagram to mark reaching 200million followers but according to HypeAuditor, of his200million followers, 25.1% have been found to be ‘fake ( that’s a staggering 50.2million accounts). It also describes 18.7 percent of his followers as “suspicious accounts”, with a further 6.4 percent tarnished as “mass followers” accounts. HypeAuditor describe “mass followers” accounts as those which have followings of over 1500 while using automatic tools to follow/unfollow. These accounts do not see influencers’ posts. Asides filtering the fake accounts, the report also documents the footballer’s followers’ primary interests. Under half [49%] of Ronaldo’s followers are described as being interested in sport – with more preferring music and even beauty and fashion. The report found 56 percent most into their music – and 62 percent beauty and fashion. And the 34-year-old unsurprisingly has a primarily male following [72%] – with just 28% being women. In terms of their locations, far more of his followers come from India than any other specific countries. The 22 percent that come from India stand a whopping 15 percent above those that hail from Iran. Three percent of his followers come from the Madrid – the city to which he gave his best years as a superstar for Real Madrid between 2009 and 2018. A huge 44 percent are primarily English speakers, with Persian and Arabic the joint-second most common language of Ronaldo’s followers with nine percent each. As of November 2019, reports had it that Ronaldo earns more per Instagram post, an eyewatering £780k, than any other user in the world. Next in line is his football rival, Lionel Messi who charges £518k-per-post and supermodel Kendall Jenner third with £489k-per-post. 