 Gov Abiodun (middle); Guest Speaker, Prof. Tunji Olopade (left); financial expert, Bismarck Rewane; Ogun State Deputy Governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele; Head of Service, Mrs. Amope Chokor; chairman Nigeria Economic Advisory Council, Dr Doyin Salami and Secretary to the State Government, Mr Tokunbo Talabi at the event…yesterday<br />  Chairman, Nigeria Economic Advisory Council, Dr. Doyin Salami and renowned financial expert, Mr. Bismarch Rewane, have observed that lack of fund has contributed to the slow pace of development in the country, as a paltry $60bn was the yearly budget of the Federal, states and local councils, thus urging governments not to spend much but ‘smartly’. They spoke at a two-day Executive Council Strategy Session with the theme: “Building our Future Together,” held at the TTC, Ogere, Ikenne Local Council. Present were cabinet members and other top public service officials. Speaking on a topic, “ Overview of the Nigerian Macro-economic Economic Environment – Key Implications for Ogun State, Governor Dapo Abiodun said it was time to impact positively on the lives of the people. He, therefore, charged political appointees to be ready to work, as the stage was set for his administration to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people. The Governor said: “It is time to work. It is important to gather, to explore and formalise various opportunities in the implementation of our building our future together agenda and take advantage of the abundant resources in the State. “Your creativity and experience have started to manifest positively in your various ministries, departments, and agencies. You are to partner and ensure the development of the state and increase the prosperity of our people, irrespective of age, gender, political affiliations, and locations.” He said as a government committed to collectiveness and inclusiveness, it was important that all parts of the state were represented in decision-making and processes, as his model will concentrate on the people. Abiodun said the retreat served as a platform to exchange ideas and come up with improved and more practical approaches towards the discharge of good governance. He disclosed that Ogun and Lagos State were on the verge of obtaining approval from the Federal Government for the construction of the Abeokuta- Ota- Lagos Road, adding that Ijebu-Ode-Epe Road would also be constructed to provide an alternative route to the Lagos- Ibadan Expressway. The Deputy Governor, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, said it was a parley meant to brainstorm on the administration’s policy framework and find ways to achieving them. Presenting a topic, “Effective Governance and Policies in a subnational, the guest speaker and Executive Vice Chairman, Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy, Prof. Tunji Olaopa, said for any meaningful development to take place, the administration must develop a change management programmes to deliver its vision and strategy indicating programme points, sequences and phases. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .