Nigeria’s ruling All Progressives Congress National leader Bola Tinubu on Wednesday reacted to the embattled security outfit established by the South-West governors. Tinubu, in a statement personally signed by him, said the security outfit tagged Amotekun is “limited, inoffensive addition” to the country’s security apparatus. Amotekun, launched early January, was kicked against by the Nigerian government through the Attorney General of the Federation Abubakar Malami stating illegality. His objection, despite several security challenges facing the South-West states, sparked widespread controversies. Tinubu’s silence for a few days also sprouted media discussions. Many critics of the government stance says the Nigerian government was acting on ethnic biases, a criticism that has continued to dog Buhari government. However, Tinubu holds a different brief for the different criticisms that have trailed the establishment of the regional security outfit, stating that his silence has been “deliberate”. “Those claiming that this limited, inoffensive addition to security threatens the Republic have taken themselves upon a madcap excursion,” Tinubu said. “Those claiming that the Federal Government seeks to terribly suppress the Southwest have also lost their compass,” he added. The ruling APC’s leader said many people are “subjective talking than objective” on the issue. “Question those in favour of Amotekun. Most have but the vaguest notion about it. They know few details yet vigorously attribute to its opponents the most negative intentions. “Ask those who oppose Amotekun. They are equally ignorant of its provisions. They oppose the initiative not on its merits but merely because it was proposed by their political opponents or because they don’t see an avenue for personal gain from it.” Tinubu said both the Southwest state governors and Malami are “seeking to fulfill what they genuinely see as their public duty.” He, however, criticised the “formulation” Amotekun stating that “some things need to be corrected before Amotekun becomes operational.” Tinubu, therefore, called on both parties should “enter private discussions.” “Either the governors should seek an official but private meeting with the Attorney-General, or the Attorney-General can initiate the contact. Since Amotekun is their initiative, the governors bear the greater onus in seeking the meeting,” Tinubu said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .