 Photo: PIXABAY  There are friends you must give red cards, especially those that are not spiritually balanced, as they can stop you from meeting Jesus. You can’t get God’s attention when you are with the crowd. Therefore, you need to change your position. Luke 19:1-10 says (1) And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho. (2) And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich. (3) And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature. (4) And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way. (5) And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for today I must abide at thy house. (6) And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. (7) And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. (8) And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord; Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. (9) And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham. (10) For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. Zacchaeus was a chief tax collector, an easy style for corruption and the rabbis taught that associating with a tax collector was to make yourself unclean. Zacchaeus had heard so much about Jesus and wanted to get close to see Jesus, but Zacchaeus was really short. So, he decided to climb the sycamore tree. Suddenly, Jesus parted the crowd to go towards the sycamore tree. He looked up and called Zacchaeus by his name, he said: “hurry and come down, for I must stay in your house today.” How loving! His purpose is to save that which was lost and to make everything perfect. He knows you, He knows your name, and no matter how dirty you think you are, He can fix you, if you are well-positioned. The moment Jesus entered Zacchaeus’ house, the people started murmuring, “is he going to stay in this sinner’s house?” But this didn’t bother the Master. May nothing stop your intimacy with Jesus. People may murmur at you, you may be ridiculed, but it doesn’t matter. The visitation of Jesus to Zacchaeus’ house transformed him and his household. He was the least likely to be saved that day, as he was the leader of the tax collector. He cheated and stole in order to get wealth, but he positioned himself for salvation. Don’t wait till tomorrow; don’t procrastinate. If you were sick, would you send it to the doctor tomorrow? Position yourself now, so that you too can celebrate. In Rhema no shaking! • Prophet Dr. Anene Nwachukwu (Oracle of God). Rhema Deliverance Mission int’l. Inc. Rhema International Prophetic Centre Lasu-Igando Road, Church Pole Bus Stop, Beside Iba Police Station, Iba Lagos. 08057083665. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .