Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has been given pass mark judging by his performance in security, infrastructure and human capital development. The security architecture, which has seen a steady rise of oil and gas production, is also seen as the reason the state has retained its number one position in the Niger Delta. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday at his residence in Ogume, Ndokwa West Council, the Executive Director, Social Services, Delta State Oil Producing Area Development Commission (DESOPADEC), Leonard Anoka, said the state was making real difference with prudence management of resources. He recalled, “In 2015 (when Okowa came to power), the nation’s economy was at its lowest with relatively low income, and the governor was able to manage the situation to stabilise the state, as he hit the ground running. “He was able to keep the security situation under control, which has helped Delta in retaining its number one spot in oil production in the country. This is because pipeline vandalism drastically reduced,” Anoka explained. According to him, human capital development is another area the governor beat every other administration in the state, citing Youth Agricultural and Entrepreneurs Programme (YAGEP). His words, “The Ministry of Education has done well, as most schools have been remodelled with well equipped laboratories, libraries and Information and Communications Technology (ICT) centres. He has ensured good road networks across the state. “So far, DESOPADEC has done well, as it has continued with the projects inherited by the last board, based on government policies in virtually every oil-producing nationalities. Anoka emphasised that DESOPADEC’s projects were based on the quantum of oil production by each of the nationalities. “No matter the number of development you want to attract to your area, it does not go beyond your quantum. We have a sharing formula, and Ndokwa has nine per cent; so you do not expect the kind of projects you find in Itsekiri or Ijaw in Ndokwa. “Moreover, we have not prioritised our projects. So until it is reviewed, we remain at nine per cent. Presently, Ika is operating without a percentage. So the review is imminent, so as to reflect their productions as well.” The main challenge he noted is bureaucracy. His words, “Government is about bureaucracy, not like the private sector-driven process where you can wake up any day and decide on the way forward for your enterprise,” adding that his people suffered lack of development due to unnecessary in
fighting, greed and lack of focused leadership. “Because of the infighting in Ogume, we have never occupied any government position. But now we have an Ogume person, one of my major projects is restoring electricity after 10 years, which has taken a toll on small scale entrepreneurs.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .