Management of Ekiti State University Ado Ekiti (EKSU) has reinstated 363 out of over 1,000 members of staff sacked in December last year. The workers were reinstated based on recommendations by the appeal panel set up by the university. The decision was ratified by the Governing Council of the university at its special meeting on January 7, 2020. Breakdown of other decisions taken revealed that 497 members of staff were not recommended for reinstatement, 52 cases not concluded, 15 workers retired, while 254 did not appeal. A statement by the Head of the Directorate of Information and Corporate Affairs of the university, Mr Bode Olofinmuagun, said that the reinstatement was a sequel to the successful appeals lodged by those concerned to the Council. Meanwhile, Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti is set to become residential as the school management and two estate management firms have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the construction of a 6,000-bed hostel. The MoU also includes the construction of residential quarters for the vice-chancellor and some top officials of the university, a move aimed at deepening student-staff relationship. Governor Kayode Fayemi, who commended the university’s management for the initiative, which he described as a “game-changer” for the university in view of its dream to rank among the best in Africa, said that the project would prevent further encroachment on the university’s land. He said that the proposed hostel accommodation would also meet the yearnings of students who have at various fora complained about the high cost of rent in the varsity community. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Edward Olanipekun and the Registrar, Akin Arogundade, signed the MoU on behalf of the institution while the chief executive officers (CEOs) of the two companies signed on behalf of their organisations. In another development, the workers of the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH) will on Monday, January 12, 2020 commence a total shut down of the health institution by declaring a strike if the management fails to reverse the “illegal” sack of their members. About 200 workers of the hospital were last year December disengaged by the management, but some have been reinstated due to pressure from the organised labour. Chairperson, Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU), Omotola Farotimi, while briefing newsmen in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said the strike was to start on Friday (today), but to give the management of the hospital three days extension for it to have a rethink over the issue. Farotimi said the management had been given the opportunity to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the labour, which must be backed with a letter to extract assurances that all the sacked workers will be recalled before shelving the strike. “We have given the management another extension of three days and it will end on Sunday, December 12, 2020 and if nothing is done before that day, there will be a total shutdown of the system at EKSUTH from Monday.” Also speaking, the organised labour through the Secretary of the Joint Negotiating Council, Gbenga Olowoyo, said there might be sympathy strike from other sectors of the civil service should government allows the strike to commence.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .