Residents of Ajao Estate in Oshodi Isolo Local Government Area yesterday made a startling request to the Lagos State government. They want the recent ban on the operations of commercial motorcycles, popularly known as Okada be extended to their area to forestall what they described as “security breach” in the neigbourhood. The concerned residents under the aegis of Ajao Estate Central Community Development Association staged a peaceful protest to the secretariat in Alausa, appealing to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to proscribe Okada operations in their community. The protesters said they could no longer sleep with their two eyes closed as a result of fear and insecurity arising from uncontrolled operations of commercial motorcycles. Chairman of the community association, Chief Martins Adegboyega, who led the protest, described the presence of Okada in the community as “unwarranted invasion”, stressing that members of the Estate could no longer feel safe with the continuous operations of Okada in the community. A resident, reacting to the development, wondered why the community leaders have left the most pressing matter, which is bad roads, to chase after a non-existent menace. Emmanuel Ufuah said: “There is no single okada operation in Ajao Estate, why the protest in the first place when they should have protested about the condition of the roads. That should be more important to them rather than okada ban.” The petition sent to the governor and signed by the residents’ legal adviser, Leo Ikeagwu, reads: “Our Estate has been taken over by criminals in the guise of Okada riders. Their activities had been banned in the Estate since 2015 after they engaged the police in a fight. These criminal elements are back in our community in full force. We want to state that shuttle buses and Keke NAPEP are in place to convey passengers from the Airport Road to Ejigbo Link Bridge to and fro. Okada riders have no business whatsoever in Ajao Estate.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .