The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) yesterday told the South-South elders that the zone should not dream of producing the president in 2023. It said that the zone had taken its turn in the place of former President Goodluck Jonathan. In a statement in Abakaliki, the National President of OYC, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, noted that inasmuch as Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council supports the position of the South-South on rotational presidency between North and South, they should not think of producing the next president. “Any attempt by these northern cabals to destroy the unconventional agreement of rotational presidency between North and South will definitely plunge Nigeria into another civil war, civil disobedience and civil unrest. “In a multi-facet democracy like ours where religion and ethnicity play a major role in our democracy, OYC advocates that in 2023, Nigeria should produce a Christian president from the South to ensure progress and security. It is an invitation to anarchy and suicidal for a Muslim northerner or a Muslim southerner to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari but definitely, a Christian southerner is what is ideal. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide observed that in the 20 years of Nigeria’s Democracy, the Igbo supported Obasanjo, Yar’Adua, Jonathan and Buhari, and deserve support from Nigerians across the board, especially the Niger Delta, in 2023. “It’s on record that during 2011 and 2015 elections, Igbo’s votes exceeded that of the entire South/South for Jonathan. The allusion that the South/South will do one term is a ruse, as it is only Jonathan that is limited by the constitution for one tenure. Until he declares interest, 2023 Igbo presidency project remains the hope of Nigeria. “We advise Chief Anabs Sara-igbe to follow the footsteps of the leader of Niger Delta and elder statesman, Pa Edwin Clark, who had declared support for 2023 Igbo presidency project for peace. “Other South/South aspirants are entitled to the constitutional provision of two terms. So, OYC urges Sara-igbe to support Igbo presidency project as Igbo had never been in the saddle 50 years after the Biafra war,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .