Wendy Williams | The Wendy Williams Show If you are familiar with the name Wendy Williams then you would know it is synonymous with controversy. The television host is once again in the news after she appeared to let out a loud far while live on-air during one of her shows. The 55-year-old seemingly suffered an embarrassing moment while speaking about NFL star, Odell Beckham’s butt-slapping incident on the popular segment, “Hot Topics” of her show, The Wendy Williams Show. In a video clip circulating online, Williams tried to ‘fart’ silently but failed as the sound was picked up by studio microphones. The media personality can be seen adjusting uncomfortably in her seat after the fart was let out but continued with the show. Watch the video below:  The incident occurred weeks after she commented on Joaquin Phoenix’s cleft lip. Williams commented that she found the Joker star and Oscar 2020 nominee “oddly attractive”. Her comments were met with heavy criticism as many felt she was being disrespectful. Wendy Williams | The Wendy Williams Show Viewers of her show were quick to address the mysterious blast online and many were overwhelmingly amused by the apparent gassy blunder. One Twitter user wrote: “Can’t sleep cause I can’t stop thinking about Wendy Williams letting out a nasty fart during Friday’s episode of her daytime talk show.” “Been cackling for 30 minutes at Wendy Williams mic picking up her fart. Like I cannot,” another entertained watcher said. “Wendy Williams let out the wettest fart on her show yesterday sksksksjs,” a fan Tweeted. Born Wendy Joan Williams, she is an American television and radio presenter, businesswoman, author, actress and media personality. She has hosted the nationally syndicated television talk show The Wendy Williams Show since 2008. Prior to television, Williams was a radio DJ and host and quickly became known in New York as a “shock jockette“. She gained notoriety for her on-air spats with celebrities and was the subject of the 2006 VH1 reality TV series The Wendy Williams Experience which broadcast events surrounding her radio show. She was inducted into the National Radio Hall of Fame in 2009.