 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu (right), during his visit to CMS Grammar School for an assessment of the ongoing capacity building training programme tagged: “EKO EXCEL” (Excellence In Child Education And Learning) at Ilaje, Bariga, Lagos… yesterday.<br />  More than 2,000 teachers from all the 57 local councils are currently undergoing a two-week intensive training being held under the state government’s Eko Excel Initiative. The programme is a key component of the Sanwo-Olu administration’s education blueprint seeking to deploy technology to fundamentally transform the basic education template, thereby improving the outcome of teaching and learning. The State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and its technical partner, Bridge International Academies, had already trained 2,400 primary school teachers in the first tranche of the capacity building programme. Sanwo-Olu, who stated this when he made a surprise visit to CMS School’s Complex in Bariga for an assessment of the on-going capacity-building programme for all public primary school teachers across the state, said the training was necessary to incorporate the primary school teachers into the reforms being introduced to improve on education at the foundation level and enhance the quality of education in the state. The governor said his government had concluded plans to digitise curriculum of basic schools, noting that modern techniques were being employed to maximise learning in all public-owned primary schools. He said that the teachers needed the training to enable them to use gadgets being introduced by the government to achieve and measure academic growth in primary schools. He said: “We are changing the mode of instruction in our primary schools and we are employing technology to achieve this. By this, we are creating a situation where schools will be attractive to children, irrespective of social background. We believe the first effort to shape their future is to make them look forward to going to school every day in their formative years. When we properly prepare them at that cognitive stage, we have carved a good future for them. “Delivering these instructions is critical. This is why we introduced this intensive training to boost the capacity of our teachers to deliver and support these children at this critical stage.” We believe teachers are the first point of contact between the children and their future. The six hours spent with teachers can go a long way in shaping what the pupils will become tomorrow.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .