Trey Songz | Image: Getty/The Blast American singer Trey Songz is facing a $10 million (₦3,615,000,000) lawsuit for allegedly sexually assaulting a woman. According to court documents obtained by The Blast, Songz whose real name is Tremaine Neverson is being sued by an unnamed Georgia woman.  According to the lawsuit, the incident took place on January 1, 2018. Songz had reportedly invited her to Miami’s E11even night club after celebrating New Year’s Eve at Diddy’s house. It was in his VIP section at E11even where the assault is said to have taken place. The suit states; “This is a lawsuit arising from a sexual assault and battery committed by NEVERSON upon JANE DOE while the two were partying at the E11even Miami night club (“E11even”) on January 1, 2018. This suit is based on claims of Assault, Battery, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiff is seeking more than Ten Million dollars ($10,000,000.00) in damages.” While at the night club in the VIP section, the lady claims, Songz sexually assaulted and battered her by proceeding to forcefully place his hand under her dress, without her consent, and attempting to insert his fingers into her private part without her consent or permission. The lady went on to claim that she was not the only woman subjected to assault “as another female who was in attendance at the nightclub with the group confided to JANE DOE that NEVERSON had also put his hands down her pants and had placed his fingers into her buttocks without her consent earlier that same night.” The lawsuit adds, “NEVERSON intentionally created an offer of bodily injury to Plaintiff by force under circumstances that created a well-founded fear of imminent peril in PLAINTIFF and NEVERSON had the present ability to effectuate his attempts to produce bodily injury towards PLAINTIFF when he reached under her skirt and attempted to insert his fingers into her vagina.” The 35-year-old crooner, whose birth name Tremaine Neverson, was previously sued for physical assault by a separate accuser, Andrea Buera. Buera claimed Songz attacked her at an NBA All-Star Weekend party, for talking to another man. Songz said that he acted in self-defence and requested that the lawsuit be dismissed. In 2017, KeKe Palmer accused Songz of “sexual intimidation,” for attempting to coax her into appearing in a music video. Songz released a statement in response to Palmer’s claims that read in part: “I cannot devote my life to responding to, or clearing up every side of every story you hear about me, when would I actually live? I know my character, I know my truth, I know my heart. God does too.”