Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State, Ben Akak, has advocated a two-party system and official zoning arrangement for the country. Akak told newsmen in Calabar yesterday that a two-party system would allow for healthy competition and fasten growth as against a large number of parties operating today. He stated that the two-party system would breed healthy competition and bring out the best leaders with quality skills to take Nigeria to the desired destination in terms of economic growth. The philanthropist, who had empowered so many women and youths under the Ben Akak Foundation, said, “Two-party system will boost our economic growth and development because the competition will be better and bring out the best leaders who are people-oriented. “The two-party system we had in place then was more of a military creation, and it was as if we were not ready for democracy. But now that we are in it, we have to adopt modules that work for us. We must understand that what works in Congo’s democracy might not work in Nigeria. We need to copy well.” He identified the country’s problem as copying wrongly and in the process of getting it wrong. Arguing that zoning is good for the country’s democracy, he said: “it creates orderliness in the system and maintains the peace in the polity.” The politician, who declined to declare his interest for any elective position in 2023, said it was too early to make any declaration. He called for continuity in project execution to improve the country’s economy. His words, “Everybody is coming out with his own ideas on how they want things to be done. But if we can be rigid it a bit and continue with the policy and projects by seeing them as the people’s project and not as the project of an individual, then it gives one an opportunity to evaluate government better.” He lauded Governor Ben Ayade’s developmental strides, adding: “The ongoing construction of the deep seaport and the superhighway projects, which are the two signature projects of the governor, will improve the state’s revenue drive when completed.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .