• Govt Charges Contractors On Value For Money Delta State Government has reiterated its readiness to support federal agencies in the state to enable them deliver quality services to its citizens. The Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Chiedu Ebie made this known when he accompanied the Presiding Judge of Court of Appeal, Benin Division, Justice Helen Moronkeji, to inspect the new Appeal Court complex in Asaba. Ebie, in a statement by his Public Relations Officer, Oghenero Orovwuje, said siting of the court in Asaba would bring quick dispensation of justice to the door-steps of Delta people, as they would no longer travel long distances for their appeals. He said: “The state government is committed to developing all sectors in line with the stronger Delta mantra of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa.  This is the reason we call on everyone to support the present administration.”Moronkeji commended the government for providing facilities for the Appeal Court’s take-off in Asaba, even as she said siting it in the capital was a big plus to the state. The SSG, who was accompanied by the Commissioners for Housing, Chief Festus Ochonogor, Energy, Basil Ganagana and Lands and Survey, Mr. Churchill Amagada, also inspected facilities at the Headquarters of the 63 Brigade Nigeria Army, Asaba. He said: “The state government would continue to support security agencies for playing very vital roles in maintaining peace and security in the state. Earlier, the Brigade Commander of the 63 Brigade Nigerian Army, Asaba, Brig. Gen. I.M Jalo thanked the government for its support, and assured Nigerian Army would continue to maintain peace and security in the state. Meanwhile, the state government has charged contractors handling projects in the state to give value for money.The SSG gave the charge when he visited the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Orientation camp, Issele-uku to inspect completed block of hostels and residential facilities built by the state. Ebie, who is also the Chairman of the NYSC Governing Board, said:“Government will not tolerate shoddy jobs by any contractor, as it does not portray government’s good intentions for its citizens. “ The State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs. Ruth Olutayor Samuel, expressed appreciation to the state government for constructing hostels and residential facilities in the camp, which would help to decongest the camp during orientation exercise. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .