Rihanna | Larry Busacca/Getty Images The 62nd Grammy Awards is set to hold on January 26, 2020, and will see some of music’s biggest stars take home honours for their works for the past year. Asides being music’s most prestigious award ceremony, the Grammy red carpet is also known to boast of some of the most stylish and outlandish looks from award season. In this article, we take a walk down memory lane to have a look at some of the most outlandish, stylish and most talked about looks from the Grammy awards over the years. Destiny’s Child (2001) Destiny’s Child | Jason Kirk/Getty Images Arguably the most successful girl band, Destiny’s Child didn’t only drop chart-topping songs but they also gave fans some memorable fashionable moments. In 2001, the defunct group wore matching green lace outfits from Tina Knowles to accept their wins. Toni Braxton (2001) Toni Braxton | AP In 2001, Toni Braxton took home the award for best female R&B vocal performance but more memorable than that win was her barely-there dress that took the concept of a thigh-high slit to another level. Speaking about the Richard Tyler dress, she said: “I’ve always gone a little risque with all my other awards [show outfits], I decided that before I got married and had babies, I’d wear this.” Jennifer Lopez (2002) Jennifer Lopez | Mike Blake/Reuters If there is a category at the Grammy awards for the most unforgettable outfit, Jennifer Lopez will have some strong contenders but she will surely win. Her iconic plunging Versace dress that she wore in 2002 to the award show caught the internet by storm. In a blog post, Google’s executive chairman, Eric Schmidt, even said her dress was the reason the company invented Google Image Search. Speaking about the dress which she says she still doesn’t understand the craze, J.Lo said: “It was a nice dress. I had no idea it was going to become such a big deal.” Lady Gaga (2010) Lady Gaga | AP Lady Gaga has had a number of outlandish outfits on different red carpets but in 2010, she caused a stir at the Grammy awards when she turned up in a dress designed by fashion legend, Giorgio Armani. Lady Gaga walked the red carpet with bright yellow hair and a trippy, celestial ensemble. Nicki Minaj (2012) Nicki Minaj and a pretend pope | AP If you have seen an episode of “The Handsmaid Tale” then you might have mistaken rapper, Nicki Minaj, as a character from the hit series. The “Barbie Drip” crooner was the cynosure of all eyes as she made her entrance with a pretend Pope. Katy Perry (2014) Katy Perry | Wally Skalij/Getty Images Since it was music’s biggest night, Katy Perry took things literally by turning up in a Valentino dress. The musician’s sheer white gown overlaid another layer of music-note-printed fabric. Rihanna (2015) Rihanna | Larry Busacca/Getty Images The princess of pop music turned up for the 2015 Grammy award in a princess-like gown. By the end of the night, Rihanna and her tiered pink dress had become an internet sensation. Joy Villa (2015) Joy Villa | Jeff Vespa/Getty Images Joy Villa had a daring look in 2015 with her orange ensemble and she accessorised with a headpiece made from the same material as her dress.  The recording artist wore a completely see-through gown that appears to have been made entirely from plastic fencing material. CeeLo Green (2017) CeeLo Green | Frazer Harrison/Getty CeeLo Green took outlandish to a new dimension when he turned up in the above head to toe gold outfit. Cardi B Cardi B | Jordan Strauss/AP Rap sensation Cardi B turned head at the 2019 Grammy Awards wearing a pearl-covered gown that made her look like she was emerging from a shell. 