Alex Lover of reality TV programmes are in for an exciting moment, as Confessions, a new TV show recently premiered on Africa Magic chalnnel. The show serves viewers unimaginable insights into the lives of many Nigerians, particularly in relation to their fears and secrets. On Confessions, viewers get to see honest real-life confessions between friends, siblings, love interests etc., as they confront their fears and open up on secrets that have been eating them up. These confessions might be good or bad or both, but they’ll provide viewers with enough insights on life issues that will positively impact their lives. Nursing fears and keeping secrets about specific occurrences or situations are some of life’s realities and everyone, old or young, find themselves battling peculiar demons. This is why former Big Brother Naija housemate Alex Asogwa has chosen to reveal to her over 2.3 million followers on Instagram some of her deepest secrets and battles in 2019. Alex, while celebrating the New Year, revealed that she indeed thought of taking her life at different times in the past year. “At some point, I had a lot going on, I got suicidal, the bad part about it was that I told no one. I only ran away. Thanks to God, I realized that wasn’t and will never be an option,” she shares, before going ahead to encourage her fans to always seek help and never consider self-harm as an option. The multi-talented entertainment personality also revealed how she became broke; despite the success she has enjoyed since leaving the BBNaija house in 2018, describing the situation as one of the most challenging times of the past year. “At another point, something terrible happened and I was down to 16 thousand naira only. I thought my life was over but guess what, I survived, I never thought less of myself or took a wrong route to come out if it. I never accepted less, and I moved forward.” The Enugu State native further shared her struggle with finding love, and how she eventually found the strength and courage to pull through the very trying year. “I found love 3 times and lost it 3 times then I locked it up and threw the key away,” she says, adding “My vow to protect my happiness was one of my best decisions and it saved me.” Like Alex’s no-holds-barred confessions, the Confessions show on Africa Magic will involve genuine revelations that will in turn trigger real-time reactions from all parties involved, as they are unaware that the situation is being filmed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .