Two men on Broadway | Broadway World In 2014, the former president of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan signed into law the anti-gay bill that criminalises gay relationships. The bill, which contains penalties of up to 14 years in prison and bans gay marriage, same-sex “amorous relationships” and membership of gay rights groups, was passed by the national assembly in May 2013 but Jonathan had delayed signing it into law. Despite the stipulated punishment of a 14-years jail term, the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans (LGBT+) community continues to thrive underground. According to statistics provided by Google Trends for 2019, South-East states rank high among the states searching for gay porn in Nigeria and is closely followed by south-south states. The eastern state of Imo tops the lists while Enugu and Anambra close the top three. Rounding up the top five is Abia and Delta state in fourth and fifth place respectively. The Federal Capital Territory, Abuja comes in at number eight while Lagos places ninth on the list.  March 10-16 of 2019 accounts for the lowest search period for gay porn while December 22-28 accounts for the highest search. The top 10 states searching for gay porn in Nigeria according to web searches are: According to the statistics, four states from the South-east make up the top four positions while three states from the south-south take the next spots. One each from north-central (Abuja), south-west and north-east complete the list. Again, Imo state tops the list of the states where image search for gay porn originated and is followed by Oyo while Rivers closes the top three. March 31-April  was the peak period for the image search for gay porn. The search was lowest between November 4-30 2019. The top seven states searching for gay porn in Nigeria according to image search are: South-South dominates the list with three slots and is closely followed by the South-West with two states. The north-central and south-east have one state each. On a related note, YouTube recorded its highest search for gay porn in Nigeria on December 29, 2019 with another South-East state – Anambra – topping the list of states searching for gay porn on YouTube. The top 5 Nigerian states searching for gay porn on YouTube  are: The south-west takes two slots from the top five on this list with the South-East, South-South and North-Central having one state entry each. In an earlier report, we mentioned that in March 2019, Nigeria topped PornHub’s list of “Top 25 Countries Searching BBW”.  with other African countries like Ghana, Kenya and Egypt following closely behind in second, third, and fourth place respectively. Along the same lines, celebrities like Kim Kardashian, Cardi B, Rihanna among others topped the people/celebrity search on PornHub.