 Temi Olajide  Childhood Influence
I will say yes; my parents did their best to live intentionally and their lives were transparent to us and were both great role models. I wanted to be a modified version of them though not with as many kids, by the way, I’m the first and only girl with three brothers. I would also say my parents’ lives parented me. I would have loved for them to have been more approachable early on in my life because their are some experiences you would have loved to share as a young girl growing up, but typical Nigerian parents then weren’t that approachable, the fear of some many other things wouldn’t allow that, lol. But they never lived a lie, so I grew up using their lives as a guide, which I usually encourage parents to do. If you cannot do so much, just be a good example because your kids can see through you and learn just to be like you as many parents don’t practice what they preach and that’s where you start to lose your kids. Inspiration Behind Mummyclinicc
Mummyclinicc was founded to empower mums on how to overcome day-to-day mummy challenges by providing them with quick hacks and solutions, achieve work and life success, improve their wellbeing and state of mental health while they raise well-rounded children in this digital age. Being Nigeria’s first certified Child Sleep Consultant
We have been able to sleep-train over 700 children in our sleep school and it’s amazing how you see the lifestyle of mums transform and become productive when their child’s sleep habits and sleep is improved. We’ve witnessed improved bonding between husbands and wives as they get more time to spend with each other, as soon as the kids are in bed, and not witnessing any interruption in their beds through the night, too. We have had testimonies of children feeding better, behaving calmer, become healthier and doing better at school due to improved sleep lifestyle and so many more.
 
I’ve heard some mums say, “why hire a sleep consultant? Our parents didn’t sleep-train us,” until I explain to them that life sleep-trained us. Imagine our lives than without Internet, Youtube, 24-7 TV programmes, phones, tabs and generators. Everyone including our parents went to bed early by 10:00 pm after news and we kids after dinner, so we were able to enjoy the benefits of sleep. But imagine our lives now and the benefits of sleep and our physiological body system is still required. Our bodies are still the same and do not understand Internet age but we are depriving it of the benefits. Even as adults, inadequate sleep is leading to many illnesses now and it’s during consolidated adequate sleep that our brain cells are repaired and our children’s growth hormones are developed.  Work-life balance of being a certified Potty Training Consultant, Child Psychologist, Wife and Mom 
I have immense support from my husband, my children and mum; they’ve being a great help. And there is something I never fail to do, asking for help, even if it will cost me. Being intentional with my life has also helped, I plan my day ahead. I guard the use of my time jealously as I know time is life. I also started to involve and integrate my kids at a very young age with house chores and my work, so that really helped as well. I refuel regularly by taking care of myself and doing what I enjoy to do, I ditched perfectionism. Nothing like a perfect mum or wife, I just work at being the best for my family.
 
Finally, I prioritise. I focus on what’s important at each time, so I’m able to give my best to whatever I choose to focus on.
Other projects and activities
Asides our sleep and potty training services, as a child psychologist, I also help mums through our classes and mummy coaching programs on building trust with their children, getting kids to listen and cooperate with them, sex education for kids, confidence and positive personality building for lifelong success and other challenges mums face.
Challenges of being a Social Entrepreneur
Poor Internet services in our country is a major for me because we work with mums across the world, and poor Internet connection makes it more frustrating in helping as many mums as we will love to help, as our platform is majorly using the online space to reach out. Collaborating with people and organisations can be a herculean task also in our country, especially pitching our services to organisations to help women employees become more productive. Lack of funds to expand is also a major challenge. We don’t want to only help mums that can afford our services or be able to access the free resources we give daily on our platform only.    To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .