• Urges CTIA to leverage platform for strategic objective To achieve listed company’s development strategy as well listing objective in the newly-launched, Growth Board, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), yesterday, said it is working with various strategic business partners and value added service providers to offer cost effective services to companies on the board.
   
The NSE Growth Board is designed to encourage growth-oriented companies with good corporate governance standards to list. It also aims to drive companies with high growth potential to seize the opportunity of raising long-term capital and promote liquidity.
   
The Board targets fast growth companies such as SMEs operating in various sectors.According to the Exchange, the partnership would create a competitive edge for listed companies within their respective industries, while stimulating investors’ interest through enhanced information delivery.Chief Executive Officer of the NSE, Oscar Onyema, while addressing market participants at the launch of the platform, in Lagos, said services such as pre-listing diagnostics; Institutional Services (including audit services, financial advisory, legal advisory, corporate strategic advisory); Investor Relations; Analyst Coverage, Corporate Access and Corporate Governance would be made available to these companies.  “The Growth Board aims to encourage companies with high growth potential to seize the opportunity of raising long-term capital and promote liquidity in the trading of their shares. The board also presents as an avenue for companies in their growth phase to leverage the NSEs platform and varied products and services to achieve their long-term business objectives.”
   
On the entry criteria, Onyema said the Board is designed to offer relaxed entry criteria as well as less-stringent ongoing listing requirements that allow for greater accessibility to capital flows, global visibility, and credibility through corporate disclosures.
   
“The growth board also restructures current market segments to better meet needs along company’s entire lifecycle i.e. entry segment – for companies with a market capitalisation from ₦50 million and standard market for institutions with a market capitalisation from ₦500 million.He added: “The segmentation of the boards also provides alternative options for interested investors to participate in each company’s growth journey.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .