The Nigeria Chung Do Kwan Taekwondo Federation Foundation (NCTFF) at the weekend held a high master grading test to upgrade 13 athletes aspiring to be grand masters in the sport. The event held at the Ikeja sports centre was witnessed by friends and relatives of the martial arts fighters, who where thrilled with fanfare as the athletes performed various tactical skills to the admiration of everyone. According to the NCTFF, Chung Do Kwan Taekwondo is a combination of traditional and competitive martial arts sport, which helps in building the mind and body of an individual in the act of self discipline, attack and self defence. Speaking on the occasion, President of NCTFF, Grand Master Sunday Igbinedion, stated that the performance of the athletes at the grading was impressive, adding that more programmes will be held to promote Chung Do Kwan Taekwondo in Nigeria. “It is important that we test and examine the athletes to grade them. Most of the martial acts fighters who attended the test are black betters from one to seven down. “At their level they are instructors that need the required knowledge to teach the young ones. Base on the special techniques of the sport, which involves two skills, the act of traditional martial act skills also known as street fighting and competitive skills, the athletes are tested in different dimension, which involves breaking of woods, fly kicks, defensive and attack moves to prepare them for any eventuality,” he said, adding that the athletes are not only trained for competition but also for self defence in case of any attack. Igbinedion, who is also the coordinator of the grading test,, said: “Our focus is not only base in training athletes for competitions, we also train them on self defence on street attack or at war situations. This is what makes Chung Do Kwan Taekwondo different. “The endurance test is also needed for the athletes to use in real life situations … Chungdokwan Taekwondo fighters always dress in black to show that the sport is an action sport. More training will be held this year to groom more youths from the grassroots,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .