The family of the late Favour Daley-Oladele has said that an order from the Lagos State Ministry of Health stopped them from burying her exhumed body at the Atan Cemetery, in Yaba Local Government Area of the state. The Guardian had reported that Favour, was gruesomely murdered in a conspiracy involving her lover, Owolabi Adeeko; his mother, identified simply as Mrs. Adeeko; and the pastor of a white garment church, Segun Philip, in the Ikoyi-Ile area of Osun State. Favour’s uncle, Solomon Toyeme, hinted that the family had mobilised to the Ministry of Health to retrieve her body for the burial when they were instructed to suspend the arrangement for the benefit of investigation. Toyeme said: “An order from the Lagos State Ministry of Health instructed us not to go ahead with Favour’s burial today. We were told that some procedures need to be taken and that we need to stop the burial so that we won’t lose the case. The family had made the burial arrangement and were at the Lagos Ministry of Health to retrieve her body for burial when we received the call.” Meanwhile, the Osun State police command has said it would commence enumeration of obscured churches across the state. Speaking at the State Command headquarters in Osogbo, Osun State Commissioner of Police, Johnson Kokumo, stressed that the state would not be safe for criminal elements. Kokumo said, “As part of our proactive measures we are embarking on the enumeration of churches in bushes. We will be proactive in our activities in ensuring that the churches as we have them in various obscured places, bushes and the rest of them are real churches and not for shrines or homes for ritual killing. We will want to know their parent’s churches. We will look into who are the people attending such a church, their parent churches. “The church at Ikoyi Ile, Osun State where the horrible killing of the final year student was carried out, no single human being of that town is a member of that church. The supposed prophet is using the place as a criminal hideout for ritual purpose.”He warned that criminal elements in the neighbouring state should have a rethink before they embark on the journey of incursion to Osun for the purpose to commit crime. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .