The Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) has described calls for the resignation of Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, as reprehensible and a plot to further rape and deprive the Urhobo nation of its rightful place in the nation’s polity. In a statement issued by its President-General, Olorogun Moses Oghenerume Taiga, it described allegations against Omo-Agege as obnoxious, odious, repugnant and wicked. It stressed that those calling for the senator’s resignation were enemies of the “live and let’s live’ tenets of democracy, which include fair hearing and due process, based on incontrovertible facts. “For the avoidance of doubts, the UPU has never supported criminality or immorality in the nation’s polity. Therefore, ordinarily, if there was any substance in their call for Omo-Agege’s resignation, the Urhobo nation would have been boxed into a tight corner. “But we would still have stood firmly for moral rectitude. Rather, the call by the group lacks the slightest whiff of believable scent. The UPU is well briefed that this odious matter has long been disposed of in the earlier days of Omo-Agege’s foray into politics. “He (Omo-Agege) has been going to the United States of America (USA) long before he became a senator and even recently, as his family partly resides there. Even as we speak, Omo-Agege’s Californian Law License is still active. “On the forcible seizure of the Mace in the Senate, Omo-Agege was exonerated of any complicity by an Abuja High Court sitting in Bwari,” the statement reads. It urged all those who feel that Omo-Agege has a case to answer to approach the court, instead of this undemocratic resort to mudslinging and nuisance to public peace. UPU further charged Civil Society Coalition threatening to mobilise protesters who have been misinformed against the senator to have a rethink. The group added that the role and position of the Urhobo nation in the Nigerian project, not only in size, but even more critically in its economic wellbeing, dictates that its rights be fully recognised and upheld. Taiga stressed that this should be so to the extent that no frivolous group should lightly contemplate depriving the Urhobo of its rightful place in the Senate. “The Urhobo are constitutionally and legally rich enough in numbers to mobilise its people to counter any form assault on its rights and that of its prominent sons and daughters across the country,” he said. The statement also put the entire Urhobo nation on the alert, prompting all that this is the all-time highest position any of its descendants had ever attained, adding, “It behooves all Urhobo persons to be vigilant and resist any attempt to rubbish any of its own.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .