Minority Leader of the Senate, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, has urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) not to lose hope over the Supreme Court ruling that removed Emeka Ihedioha as governor of Imo State, saying the darkness would soon give way for the light. He urged the party not to engage in blame game, as the dark hour would surely pass away. Abaribe, who stated in a statement in Abuja signed by his media aide, Uchenna Awom, while decrying the judgment, advised that the ruling be taken in good faith in deference to the protection of the sanctity of institutions of governance. He, however, warned of an imminent weakening of some critical agencies of democracy and expressed concern over the acceptance of unit results from sources other than the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) certified results, without calling unit witnesses, as already established by the same Supreme Court in a similar case involving former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, recently. “What it means is that results from security agencies, like civil defence, Army, Navy and even community ones, like Hisba, JTF etc will be more sacrosanct and acceptable than the official INEC tabulation,” Abaribe stated. He said the painful outcome of the legal process has again raised poignant questions that should ignite serious calls for total reforms of the electoral and governance structures in Nigeria, saying the stark reality in the circumstance is that the apex court is the final arbiter and its decisions must be respected at all times. Nonetheless, he lamented the contradictions in the final analysis, especially when the statistics of who-got-what in the state assembly among the various political parties is put side by side in the result that was recorded same day with the governorship election. “How many Houses of Assembly members in Imo State did APC produce in the election that was held on the same day as this governorship election in question? Can someone refresh us…? PDP won 13 seats, AA 8, APGA 6 and APC won no seat out of a total 27 seats. “And now, by this judgment, the APC that did not win any seat in the state assembly in the election that was held and collated the same day won the Imo State governorship election at the Supreme Court. APC should not gloat. “These are times that make hearts and wills falter. But as the Holy book says, “…this too shall pass away.” For our friend and brother, Ihedioha, courage is the name. This will also pass away. “Your valedictory speech is heartwarming. It shows that there will be a rosy tomorrow from today’s despondency. For all of us in the PDP, this is not a time for blames. When men are bent on evil, they will not stop, but ultimately, the will of the people shall prevail,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .