Newly confirmed National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) Chairman, Dhikrullah Olakunle Hassan (left) and Former NAHCON Chairman, Barr. Abdullahi Muktar Muhammad at the screening of NAHCON board members at the National Assembly in Abuja on Wednesday. • Commission mulls new Hajj saving scheme, training institute The Senate has confirmed the appointment of Zikrullah Olakunle Hassan as Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). President Muhammadu Buhari had on December 3, 2019 recommended Hassan to the Senate chambers as the new helmsman at NAHCON. Rolling out his agenda at the senate screening on Wednesday, Hassan said his team would accord priority to the Hajj saving scheme, Hajj Training Institute as well taking a critical look at the number of days pilgrims spend in the holy land. Hassan said a major problem of Hajj for Nigerians is the issue of affordability due to annual increase in fares. He said his administration would ensure the speedy take off of the Hajj Saving Scheme to address this problem. He said if Malaysia and Indonesia could solve the problem of affordability with the scheme, there was no reason Nigeria could not do the same and even better. The new NAHCON boss said Hajj operation has become a profession and should be treated as such in Nigeria. Towards that end, he promised to pursue the setting up of a Hajj Training Institute of international repute to train Nigerians and nationals of other countries on the rudiments of Hajj. He also said his board would take a critical look at the NAHCON Act with a view to enforcing to the letter, the aspects that are still in abeyance. Born on June 26, 1961, Hassan hails from Osun State. He is a polyglot as he speaks Yoruba, Arabic and English. He holds a BSc degree in Business Administration from the University of Lagos, LLB from the Lagos State University and BL from the Nigerian Law School, Lagos; he was Chairman/Amir Hajj of Osun State Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board (2010-2018); Senior Special Assistant to the Osun State Governor on Religious Affairs, (2010-2018); Principal Counsel, Olakunle Hassan & Associates (2006-2010) and Chief Executive, Tafsan Tours &Travels, (Official Hajj &Umrah Operator of Nasirul-lahi Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT). Hassan is also the Chairman, Board of Trustees of FAJR Centre (A standardized Centre for Memorization and Teaching of Islam & Arabic) from 2019 till date and was Chairman, Forum of State Chairmen and Secretaries of Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board Agency between 2014 and 2017 and currently the Director of Dawah (Islamic Propagation) of The Companion (An Association of Muslim Men in Business and the Professions since 2004. The NAHCON Chairman was Amir, Muslim Student Society of Nigeria (MSSN), Lagos Area Unit 1984- 1986; National President, MSSN 1986-1988; Secretary, Africa Secretariat of the World Assembly of Muslim Youth (WAMY) 1986-1990; Member of the Committee of Ulama of Lagos State Pilgrim Welfare Board Hajj Exercise, 2000-2002; Amir, The Companion, Lagos District 2004-2006 and Executive Secretary, NASFAT 2004-2006. A member of the Nigerian Bar Association, he is happily married with children has attended several conferences and seminars on Hajj in London and Malaysia and has won several awards from NAHCON for the Osun State Pilgrims Welfare Board.
[]
Other nominees into the Commission are Abdullahi Magaji Hardawa from Bauchi State as Executive Commissioner – Operation, Inspection and Licensing. Nura Hassan Yakasai from Kano State as Executive Commissioner – Policy, Personnel Management and Finance and Sheikh Momoh Suleman Imonikhe from Edo State as Executive Commissioner – Planning, Research, Statistics, Information and Library Those nominees to serve as part time members are Halimat Jibril from Niger State, Abba Jatto from Borno State , Garba Umar from Sokoto State and Ibrahim Ogbonnia Amah from Ebonyi State. Sadiq Musa from Delta State , Akintunde Basirat Olayinka from Ogun State, Shehu Dogo as representative of Ministry of Aviation and Nura Abba Rimi as representative of Ministry of Foreign Affairs . Rabi Bello Isa as representative of Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Sherrif as representative of Ministry of Health , Aminu Bako Yarima as representative of Nigeria Immigration Service ( NIS) and Ibrahim Ishaq Nuhu as representative of the Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN). Others are Dr. Bala Muhammad as the representative of Jama’atul Nasril Islam and Yusuf Chinedozi Nwoha as representative of the Nigeria Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .