Music star Zlatan Ibile’s desire to become a successful music star might not have come to pass but for Lawrence Irabor and his partners. A co-owner of Alleluyah Boiz Entertainment, he saw Zlatan’s talent and took a risk on him in 2018. At the moment, Zlatan has become a household name in the Nigerian music industry. Speaking at a media briefing in Lagos, Irabor made it known that he and his partners met Zlatan as a very hopeful artiste that was finding his foot in the music industry, and they knew he was the kind of person they wanted to work with. “When I first heard of Zlatan, he was one of the few fast rising acts in the music industry at the time. I mean, he had a song with Olamide and another in the works with Davido. So, I was sure if given a bigger platform, Zlatan was going to be a force to reckon with. As a good investor, my partners and I decided to check him out and we kick-started the process of signing him. From then till now, we have never regretted signing Zlatan as a talent under my label.” Alleluyah Boiz Entertainment (A.B.E) has remained one of the fastest growing record labels in the Nigerian music industry. Irabor recently said his platform is growing to be a home to raw talents, and seeing them grow into becoming musical products that Nigeria can boast of, remains a major achievement. Asides from well-known artiste such as Zlatan, the platform is also the home of fast-rising Afro pop act, Oga Network.Irabor further explained that he has had a good year with both artistes and he’s not stopping work on their uncompleted projects anytime soon. He disclosed his desire to sign on more talents, though he’s currently focusing on the two. The businessman, however, admitted that things started rough for him, noting that he lost his parents early in life.   “I ventured into business as a petty trader when I lost my dad. I lost my mum few years after my dad’s demise and I have six siblings to take care of. As the only son, I had to make sure my sisters didn’t lack; I was always thinking of how to multiply any business I invested in,” he recalled. As an entertainment executive, he said he is grateful for the past year, while making plans for 2020. “2019 has been very challenging but yet very successful. One thing I have learnt in the year was that hard work and persistence will forever have good rewards,” he said. From planning to launch the biggest analogue recording studio in the country to discovering and signing new talents, Irabor urged Nigerians and music lovers at large to expect more from the label as they will continue to deliver with more good music, concerts and good work in the New Year.