French Montana | HipHopDX The struggle for supremacy in the music industry is a well-known one as artistes attempt to stay atop their game while competing with the many other talents vying for the top position. Did one entertainer take his game a bit too far? Twitter user, @Karlamagne seems to think with a series of tweets that accuses rapper, French Montana of cheating the system. @Karlamangne’s tweets are coming on the heels of Montana’s song “Writing on the Wall” charting on Spotify this week. The three-months-old song features fellow rappers Post Malone, Cardi B, and Jamaican pop star Rvssian. The song debuted on September 27, 2019 but only lasted five weeks on the Billboard Top 200. However, “Writing on the Wall” reentered U.S. streaming charts and the recent spike in streams has aroused the suspicion of @karlamagne who accused French Montana and his team of hacking personal Spotify accounts to boost their streaming numbers. The screenshots provided by @karlamagne are circumstantial and do not offer concrete proof of any pay-for-play actions taken by French or his team. For one, the song is only rising in popularity on one major streaming platform: Spotify. While “Writing on the Wall” rose 27 spots to be within the top 50 on Spotify, the single simultaneously dropped a whopping 105 spots on Apple Music, settling in at No. 1192. The second bit of alleged irony involves personal Spotify accounts being hacked the same week the song re-entered the charts. The original thread posted by @karlamagne includes screenshots of more than a dozen Twitter users claiming their Spotify accounts were hacked between December 18 and December 23. The tweets state the users’ passwords had been changed and they had been effectively locked out of their accounts. Many of the users affected by the alleged cyber-attack claim the hackers used their accounts to stream a bizarre mix of foreign pop songs and French Montana’s three-month-old single. “Writing on the Wall” reentered Spotify’s U.S. Top 50 streaming charts on December 22. Neither French nor his camp has responded to the allegation of buying streams but according to TechCrunch.com, Spotify noticed suspicious activity last year, and changed a few accounts passwords. Watch the video for French Montana’s “Writing on the Wall” below: 