God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? Or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?”
 
God is unchangeable and unchanging. He is not like those who can alter their opinions, break their promises, modify their plans and speak lies with the twisted tongue of the serpent. The Lord our God is immutable.God is perfect in all His thoughts and trustworthy in all His ways. Unlike men, who often distort facts, twist the truth and are easily tossed about like waves on the sea, God’s counsel is steadfast. His promises are sure, His Word is dependable, and His Truth lasts from one generation to another.
 
With God, there is no darkness, neither is there shadow of turning. The book of Numbers clearly states the unalterable truth… that “God is not a man. He does not lie, nor does he change his mind.If God has said it, He will certainly do it. God has set out His plan of the ages within the pages of Scripture and His purposes for those that trust in Jesus Christ as Saviour are steadfast and sure. We have the assurance of God Himself; that His Word is to be trusted, for God has placed His Word above His holy Name.
 
In Paul’s letter to Titus, we are informed “God, cannot lie,” while in Romans, we read “the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.” Hebrews states: “it is impossible for God to lie,” while the Lord Jesus, Who is the Way, the Truth and the Life stated in Luke, “Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will not pass away.”
 
Despite the disobedience of His chosen nation, we read in Psalms, “I have sworn by My holiness and I will not lie to my servant David.” The Lord is true to His word – His mercy is new every morning and He is a faithful God Who will stand firm to the very end of time; for God is NOT a man that He should lie, and the Lord Jesus Christ is the faithful and true Witness.. Whose Word stands fast forever.
 
The Lord of truth will never go back on His Word; for He is the God Who does not change and Whose word is worthy of all acceptance. God is merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness – and the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
 
Despite the instabilities and uncertainties of this world, and in spite of men’s faults and failings – the Word of the Lord is sure, His decrees are unalterable, and all His promises are all “yes” and “amen” in Christ Jesus our Saviour.Heaven and earth may pass away, but the Word of the Lord stands fast forever, for God is not a man, that He should lie, nor is he the son of a man, that He should change His mind. He is the Son of the unchangeable and unchanging God. Has He said, and will He not do? Or has He spoken, and will He not make it good?What it is that God has said concerning you? He is able to perform it. He alone can change any situation and make life beautiful, if only you put your trust in Him.
In Rhema, no shaking!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .