An accident involving two vehicles near Ishara, Ogere area of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway has killed three male adults and left others with varying degree of injuries. The accident involved a blue coloured Iveco Turbo truck marked LSR908XF and Toyota Hiace bus with registration number FST96XF. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Ogun State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, who confirmed the accident in a statement by the Route Commander, Public Education and Enlightenment Unit of the Corps, Florence Okpe, attributed the cause to “route violation (driving against traffic) around the construction zone” along the expressway. Oladele, who noted that the accident occurred on Monday night, said the injured were rescued to the Victory Hospital, Ogere, while the bodies of the dead were deposited at a morgue in Ishara.He advised motorists to note the high vehicular traffic during this period and drive consciously by sharing the road with due consideration to fellow users, even as he reminded them that the rehabilitation work on the Lagos – Ibadan and Ore – Ijebu Ode – Sagamu Expressways suspended during the yuletide holidays, have commenced following the resumption of work from the national holidays. According to FRSC boss in the state, motorists should plan their journey to accommodate additional travel time required to navigate around areas where lanes have narrowed due to the ongoing construction activities. Also, a commercial bus on Tuesday, crushed a teenager (names withheld) around Wazobia axis of Ogere toll gate on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. Babatunde Akinbiyi, the spokesperson of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps (TRACE), confirmed the incident to newsmen in Abeokuta. Akinbiyi said the accident, which occurred at about 1:05p.m. was caused by reckless driving on the part of the bus driver who hit a motorcycle from the rear. No fewer than 17 persons were involved in the accident, 14 inside the bus and three on the motorcycle, while two were injured.Akinbiyi said the two injured persons were the mother of the deceased teenager and the motorcycle rider. “The accident involved a Mazda bus, with registration number: KRD 656 XH and a BAJAJ motorcycle, with registration number: LAR 111 VR. We learnt the commercial bus was coming from Ibadan inbound Lagos, when it ran into the motorcycle from the rear due to reckless driving.“The driver of the bus ran away in the process and the mob that gathered almost set the bus ablaze, but for the timely intervention of the police and TRACE officials. Akinbiyi disclosed that the injured victims were rescued and taken to Victory Hospital in Ogere, while the body of the dead victim was deposited at FOS Mortuary, Ipara Remo. He added that the accidented vehicle and motorcycle had been taken to the Motor Traffic Department (MTD) Office in Ogere.Akinbiyi urged motorists to eschew dangerous and reckless driving during this harmattan season because of its attendant consequences.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .