While Nigeria still grapple with drug insecurity, which has caused many deaths as a result of complications, pharmaceutical expert has pledge to stem the tide through improved medicine supply chain. The Chief Executive Officer, HealthPlus Pharmacy Limited, Bukky George, said it is necessary to promote and protect the integrity of drug supply chain in communities through strong partnerships with trusted suppliers and be self-regulating, according to world-class standards, as it impact in the health sector at large. She said attracting, retaining and training the best pharmacists and support staff, as well as providing unparalleled customer service and value-adding pharmacy services through modern and professional stores is key to improving healthcare. “Our efforts have been rewarded with multiple awards for excellence in healthcare and community service. Our commitment to excellence and resilience is renowned. We not only inspire our peers in healthcare, we inspire enterprises and individuals across Nigeria and beyond. This anniversary therefore provides the opportunity to renew our commitment to the pursuit of excellence and the achievement of even greater milestones.” George, who spoke during the community pharmacy’s 20th anniversary celebration in Lagos with the theme: “An evening of Inspiration and Gratitude”, where the organisation celebrated its success story in trusted care.The pharmacist also appreciated the customers, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders who keep professionals in the business. The Founder and Chairman, JULI Pharmacy Plc, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, in his goodwill message stated that the pharmaceutical industry will continue to celebrate its members who make great impact in the healthcare sector.He eulogised the founder of the organisation for her commitment and stated further that she has surprised everyone with her achievements. On his part, the Founder, JAYKAY Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company Limited, Jimi Agbaje, said community pharmacists have a huge role to play in the healthcare of citizens, especially in the dispensation of drugs, adding that the founder of the Healthplus pharmacy has made great success in ensuring the well being of Nigerians through her services. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .