 Samuel Ortom. Photo: TWITTER/BENUESTATE  State governors yesterday continued to felicitate with Nigerians promising to improve security of lives and property, infrastructure development, better opportunities, better budget monitoring, end sexual assault and child abuse, among others. In his New Year message, Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello said his administration would continue to pay greater attention to insecurity, infrastructure decay, prompt payment of salaries and emoluments to civil servants. Bello also assured that unemployment, healthcare and education, among others, would be prioritised during his second term in office.“We will also pay greater attention to human capital development by investing more in training our people for enhanced relevance in a technologically evolving future. “It shall remain the principal preoccupation of my administration to bring revitalised energy to bear on delivering refocused governance in Kogi State for the next four years,” he stated. Besides, Benue State counterpart, Samuel Ortom, expressed hope that 2020 would be a better year with greater opportunities for the people of the state and all Nigerians. He thanked God for His grace, guidance and protection throughout 2019 that enabled his administration confront the challenges of development.His words: “Just yesterday, I signed the 2020 Appropriation Bill tagged, “Budget of Advancement, Growth and Development,” which focuses on raising the standard of our people living at the grassroots level through economic growth and human capital development.” Relatedly, Yobe State Governor Maimala Buni pledged to adopt monitoring mechanisms for the state ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) for effective service delivery. Speaking at the first 2020 inaugural State Executive Council (SEC) meeting at Government House, Damaturu, he said this year’s budget was a road map to achieve budgetary targets on accountability and transparency. He added that the 20 commissioners should always consider the expectations and obligations to serve the people with dignity and honour, adding: “I expect all council members to hit the ground running with the kind of service delivery that will make all our people proud.” On his part, Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, expressed gratitude to the people of the state for their support since the inception of his administration, promising better days ahead for them in 2020 and beyond. In his statewide broadcast yesterday, he said the administration would continue to strive hard and diligently to lay the foundation that would take the state to the desired heights of economic consolidation in 2020.
Governor Oyetola promised the administration’s determination to enhance the welfare and standard of living of the citizens. He enjoined Nigerians, particularly residents of the state to embrace and maintain the Omoluabi virtues of peace, hard work, honesty, resourcefulness and selflessness that have earned the state commendation. Meanwhile, Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha, said his government would establish referral centres to check cases of sexual assault, child abuse and other related offences in the state.Ihedioha, who disclosed this in his New Year message, also said his government was putting necessary measures in place to ensure access to basic necessities of life and protection for vulnerable groups, including People Living With Disabilities (PWDs). He said, “In addition, we shall work to domesticate the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act in Imo State. We are also looking at working with development partners and civil society groups to establish Sexual Assault Referral Centres (SARC).”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .