There was chaos in Yemoja area of Iwo, Osun State on Monday evening when policemen uncovered a ritualist den allegedly operated by two siblings identified as Tajudeen Monsuru and Tajudeen Lawal. It was gathered that a woman identified as Mutiat Alani went missing and the police launched an investigation into the matter. A resident, simply identified as Olaide, told newsmen that a manhunt was launched for the missing lady. “The telephone of the missing woman was tracked to one vulcanizer who told the police that he got the phone from one of the siblings. “He led the police to the house of the ritualists and they were arrested. Irate youths burnt down the house after corpses were recovered on Monday night. We are still in fear of the incident,” he said. Spokesperson of the Osun State Police Command, Mrs. Yemisi Opalola, confirmed the arrest of the two siblings caught with mutilated corpses. She said: “We arrested two ritual killers, Tajudeen Monsuru and Tajudeen Lawal. A woman identified as Mutiat Alani was reported missing. We commenced an investigation. The telephone of the missing woman was found with Monsuru. “The police went to the house and recovered two mutilated corpses. They discovered decomposing bodies. They confessed that they killed many people but only two corpses were recovered. They killed for rituals to help those that patronise them,” she added. Reacting, Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, in a statement by his press secretary, Alli Ibraheem, said: “The Oba is disappointed that Iwo residents could still kill for rituals despite his frequent anti-ritual campaigns in the media. He described the perpetrators as bastards of Iwoland, urging security agencies to conduct a full investigation into their allies. “As an ardent campaigner against ritual killings, I condemn in totality the recently discovered ritual den in Iyemoja, Iwo. It is an act against humanity. The perpetrators should be made to face the full wrath of the law. Iwo is known for morality and respect for human lives. Anyone caught dealing in human parts should be treated as criminal and bastard. “I have commenced the process to confiscate the den discovered in Iwo. I will approach a competent court of law to give a permit to confiscate land/house and surrounding houses of ritual killers. A powerful security committee will be set up as a liaison between the town and the security to give tip-off information on suspicious ritual murdering. Doing so will serve as a deterrent to others and chase ritualists dealing in human parts away from Iwo,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .