Chairman of South West Governors’ Forum, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has received a memorandum for the establishment of a development commission to cater for the growth needs of the region. Akeredolu, who is also Ondo State governor, took delivery of the report from chairman of the Technical Committee and Chief of Staff to Osun chief executive, Dr. Charles Diji Akinola, yesterday in Akure. The panel had the attorneys-general and another person each from the six states that make up the zone. The chief law officers include Sir Charles Titiloye (Ondo); Mr. Femi Akande (Osun); Prof. Oyewo Oyelowo, SAN (Oyo); Mr. Gbolahan Adeniran (Ogun); Mr. Olawale Fapohunda (Ekiti) and Mr. Moyo Onigbanjo (Lagos). The other members are Special Adviser to Oyo State Governor (Political), Babatunde Odunyoye; Ogun State Commissioner of Finance, Mr. Dapo Okubadejo; Chairman, Governing Council of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Dr. Tunji Abayomi; Ekiti State Commissioner of Finance, Mr. Akin Oyebode and former Commissioner for Finance in Lagos State, Mr. Ayo Gbeleyi. During the presentation, Akinola said the document conscientiously reviewed the bill and made relevant recommendations. “What we are presenting today (yesterday) is a joint memorandum which is the resolution of all members of the technical committee for future consideration at your level as governors,” the chairman noted. On the recommendations, Akinola said two committees and seven other sub-committees had been suggested. He added: “The Bill for an Act to establish the South West Development Commission is expected to act as a catalyst to develop the commercial and industrial potentials of the zone. “It is to receive and manage federal allocations for the agricultural and industrial development of the South West as well as address educational backwardness, security and development challenges and related matters.” The proposed piece of legislation was sponsored by Senator Ibikunle Amosun (APC: Ogun Central) in the Senate. In his remarks, Governor Akeredolu commended the team for a thorough job, submitting that their choice had been justified. He pledged that their observations would be given due attention for the good of the people of the region. The governor thanked the committee for disposition to the Development Agenda For Western Nigeria (DAWN), stating that the body would continue to exist as a think- tank, while the panned commission is to serve as support base. He promised that the governors would meet and transmit the memorandum to the National Assembly for action.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .