Players from across the country have started arriving in Ilorin for the sixth Kwara Open Golf Tournament, which tees off tomorrow at the Ilorin Golf Club. During the week, the organisers revealed that players from different clubs across the country were scrambling to be part of the competition, which is one of the biggest end of year events in the ancient city. A former board member of the Nigeria Golf Federation (NGF) and consultant/marketer for the Sixth Kwara Open Tournament, Luqman Owolewa, said the event is primed to be one of the best in the history of the tournament. He added: “Ilorin has an unusual advantage as being a tourist’s preferred destination, and we have golfers from different states showing interest to take part since news filtered out that the government has given a go-ahead for the tournament to take place.” Owolewa said this year’s edition, despite being a wholly amateur golfers affair, has been spiced up with prizes for players, and virtually every golfer that tees off at the Par 72 course will be rewarded for their play. “The players are expected to throng the course from Friday, Dec. 18, for an official practice round on the host course,” Owolewa said. He disclosed that the Kwara State government is sponsoring the event with support from Kwara Internal Revenue Service, Noktel Resort and Hotel, and OPAS Nigeria Limited, as co-sponsors. Club Captain, Chief Ray Okafor, said the course is in good shape and the club facilities are ready to host golfers for the weekend. “Most golfers due to the number of days we stayed off the game at the expense of the pandemic have been yearning for action, especially an opportunity to have a round of golf at Ilorin Club here. “I believe this event and others that we look forward to hosting in the future, gives us a perfect chance at opening up the state and its wide investment opportunities to tourists and potential investors,” he stated. The game would be judged over 18 holes of play and entries have so far from Ibadan Tiger, Ekiti, Minna, Kaduna, Kano, Ikeja and Abeokuta Golf Clubs, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .