 Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi (right), teaching Ridwan Scorpion Oyekola how to beat Argentina’s Lucas Matias Montesino in their World Boxing Federation’s (WBF) Super Featherweight title fight in Ibadan…on December 27.  Scorpion will meet Montesino on December 27 at Ilaji Hotels and Sports Resort in Ibadan for the vacant belt. The Alaafin, while hosting the Local Organising Committee (LOC) of the fight led by Sir Olawale Okonniyi in his palace, expressed joy that history is rewriting itself again in Oyo State after 57 years. The monarch before giving the Ibadan born boxer his royal blessing, recalled his winning mentality during his days as a young boxer in the Ebute Metta area of Lagos and shared some boxing techniques that could enhance Scorpion’s victory. “Boxing is spiritual, only those who are engaged in the ring can understand that. Footwork was my strength in my boxing days and it had helped me against most of my opponents. You will need to keep your feet apart as you move to maintain good balance, and move round the ring using short sliding steps on the balls of your feet while you always move the foot closest to the direction in which you want to move first,” the Alaafin told Scorpion. He offered prayers to the boxer and urged the LOC to ensure the image of the nation is portrayed in a shining light considering how the fight will attract global attention. He also promised to be at the ringside during the fight to cheer Scorpion to victory. Also speaking during then visit, president of the Nigeria Boxing Board of Control (NBBofC), Dr. Rafiu Ladipo, assured the monarch of a hitch-free and high standard bout, especially with the lofty sporting facilities provided by the management of Ilaji Resort.
 
Other members of the LOC in the entourage to the Alaafin’s Palace were the CEO of Core Afrique Boxing Promotion and the promoter of the fight, Sola Ayodele, the Chairman of Oyo NBBofC, Gbenga Opaleye, and his vice, Ms. Edna Ayegbeni, as well as the head of Media, Ademolu Okuneye. Others were Princess Ayodele Mujidat Balogun, Elder Olugbemiga Ugbadgbor, Seyi George, Adetujoye Damilola and Olanrewaju Agiri.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .