 Harvested cornfield at HO Corn Farm, Ofiki  In this report, GBENGA SALAU trailed three digital farmers, who promised investors high ROI to their offices in Lagos and farms in Oyo and Ogun states. The farms of two of the digital farmers could not be located at the advertised sites, while one of them that could not fulfill its financial obligations to investors has a closed office. The promoter of the third farm, though existing, has failed to give investors their ROI, more than three months after the due date. When Prosper Onyekachukwu saw an advert by HO Corn, a digital farm, in January this year that investors would get 50 per cent Return On Investment after six months for investing in its corn farm, the offer got him thinking deeply. This was because though he had no money to invest, the ROI was tempting. He thought it was a good business opportunity that should not pass him by. So, he took a loan from his organisation’s cooperative society to invest.
 
But nine months after, Onyekachukwu regretted taking that step, as HO Corn farm has neither delivered on its promise to return a 50 per cent profit on investment nor paid back the capital. “I borrowed from my office cooperative to invest in HO Corn in January with the hope of paying back in July, as your CEO said payment would be made on or before six months after investment,” he wrote to HO Corn in desperation. “Since this disappointment on the payment date, I have been servicing the debt from August till date. So, I am hereby humbly reminding you that if your company fails to pay me on or before December 1, I will have to pay again for the coming month, which will be very painful to me.”  “One of their marketers gave me their flier earlier this year around Ogba Market. I called the phone number on the flier for enquiries. Thereafter, I went online to do my research. I came across their adverts online, interview with Channels TV and I also saw their website. So, I was convinced that the company was genuine and it would be a good investment.”
 
Like Onyekachukwu, Oluwaseun had to go looking for a loan. The only difference was that the N300, 000 she invested was obtained from friends. She explained that she did not envisage any disappointment, based on the ‘evidence’ on the ground, which was why she did not entertain any fear when committing the money.
 
She said: “I borrowed money to add to what I had to invest. Not only have they tied down my money, but I have also not been able to pay back those I took the loan from. It would have been a great relief, if the money had been paid at the stipulated time, because of the financial strain I experienced during the lockdown period. It also affected my business greatly.”  The security officer said the naval officer was very bitter and visibly angry during their interaction.
 
With nobody in the office to explain why HO Corn has failed to deliver, the next step was to visit the farm. The idea was to see if actually there was a corn farm, as some investors had insinuated that there was none. On its website, HO Corn claimed its farm is located in Iseyin-Ofiki town in Atisbo Local Government, Oyo State.
 
Upon arrival at Iseyin, locals disclosed that Ofiki town is not part of Iseyin, though it is under Atisbo Local Government, and Iseyin is not part of Atisbo Local Government. The next day, the reporter headed to Ofiki town, which is over an hour drive from Iseyin. On getting to the town, a resident in the community said HO Corn farm actually existed. Located in Oke Iluku part of Ofiki, the farm is, however, inaccessible by vehicles, as the road is rough. The resident said it would take about 40 minutes riding on bike to get to the farm. The journey was actually an hour and 10 minutes.  After telling her, she directed the reporter to stay in an open space around the farm kitchen, where workers usually assemble during the break. She added that once Harrison was awake, he would come to meet the reporter though that might be in the evening.
 
Not deterred, the reporter headed to the open space. After waiting for about two hours and Harrison failed to show up, the reporter left the farm.  UNLIKE HO Corn, whose farm is about two states away from Lagos, though still difficult to access, Farmtisa claimed its pig farm is located in Akwa Ibom. It also did not provide the farm’s specific location, saying the farm’s is located in Etim Ekpo Local Council. And while Farmtisa Lagos office exists, it is a workstation in the Ajah area of Lagos. It is just like that of HO Corn located on Victoria Island, but the difference is that while those manning the Victoria Island workstation knew and accepted that HO Corn used to be a client, those at the Ajah workstation said they did not know Farmtisa, as an organisation. While HO Corn promised 50 per cent, Farmtisa promised 25 per cent after six months. HO Corn has a management team, Farmtisa does not, especially if the information provided on its website is anything to go by.
 
Farmtisa claimed its farm was insured by the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation, which turned out to be false. HO Corn claimed its farm was insured by Anchor Insurance, but the policy it took was terminated on the basis that it did not provide full information before taking the policy.
 
Just like HO Corn desires to be the largest corn farm in Africa, Farmtisa wants investors to collaborate with it to build the biggest pig farm in Africa. Investing in agriculture seems to be the new business in town, as many organisations now claim to be digital farmers, engaging in crowdfunding to finance their farming business with bogus ROI.
 
On many social media platforms, Nigerians are invited to invest or sponsor a section of a farm with Return On Investment sometimes yielding between 15 to 70 per cent within a year. As an assurance, investors are told that the farms are insured in most cases.
 
There are a number of such farms, and they include Abande Farms, which promises 30 per cent ROI, with claims that the farm is fully insured by Leadway Assurance, while Farmtify promises N500, 000 returns every three months. For Eatrich Farms, it is 50 per cent ROI after six months. On its part, Ampersand Farms promises 30 percent ROI after five months. AgroEmpire Estate asked investors to invest in its rice processing business with a 25 per cent ROI in four months.
 
Other farms in this category are SGL Farms, Ajebo Farmers, Dickem Farms Africa, Blue Farms, Famerboy.ng and Farmfunds, among others.  Menorah Farms claimed its farm is in Ago-iwoye, Ogun State. And unlike SGL Farms that is still inviting investors to come on board, Menorah Farms like HO Corn has failed to pay investors.
   
When the reporter visited Menorah Farms office around the Idimu-Ikotun area of Lagos, the compound looked deserted. But after repeated knocks on the gate, a young man came down from the top floor of the one-storey building. The reporter asked if the compound housed Menorah Farms office, he said not any more. It moved out about four months ago. He enquired why the reporter was asking for the company, but before a reply came, he asked again if the reporter invested with Menorah Farms and that many had come asking for the farm’s promoters, as they invested and could no longer reach the company’s promoters.  “The problem is that many of these farms do not have an insurance policy with Leadway Assurance and they are just using our logo. Also, a lot of them do not insure their farms 100 per cent, but just a fraction of it. There is a lot of work and we are getting around it. In case of any damage and we pay the claim, we cannot even mandate them to pay the investors.”
 
When contacted, the spokesperson of Nigeria Agriculture Insurance Corporation (NAIC) said: “We do not insure by proxy. We insure what is on the ground and we do not insure based on return on investment. So, they cannot be telling investors that they are insured by NAIC. We do pure insurance.  COMMENTING on the issue, the Technical Adviser, Knowledge Management and Communication to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mbaram Richard-Mark, said though farm companies are private businesses that entered a contractual agreement with their investors, those who feel aggrieved in the contractual have a right to seek redress in court and through relevant government agencies for remedy.
  
Richard-Mark added that due to complaints, the minister is already looking at setting up some form of regulatory appraisal body that will bring these people or their activities under some form of regulations.  This investigation was supported by International Centre for Investigative Reporting. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .