 Released students gather at the Government House with other students from the Government Science Secondary school, in Kankara, in northwestern Katsina State, Nigeria upon their release on December 18, 2020. – More than 300 Nigerian schoolboys were released on Thursday after being abducted in an attack claimed by Boko Haram, officials said, although it was unclear if any more remained with their captors (Photo by Kola SULAIMON / AFP)  He also commended Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari and the armed forces for working tirelessly to secure the schoolboys’ release. Tinubu said the quick release of the schoolboys from their abductors had vindicated the president in his untiring efforts to rid the country of insecurity and see the back of bandits and insurgents in the land. In a statement by his Media Office in Lagos, the former Lagos governor said: “The initial abduction of the over 300 Kankara schoolboys from their dormitory in broad daylight was unsettling and raised serious concern. However, their prompt rescue from their abductors is heart-warming. “It vindicates President Buhari in his untiring commitment and determination to rid the country of insecurity and confront Boko Haram insurgents and bandits operating in some parts of the country. “I congratulate and commend the president for his prompt and decisive intervention. I must also congratulate Katsina State Governor Aminu Bello Masari and men of our armed forces for bringing the boys back home. “This laudable effort must be sustained. We must all do more to tackle the evildoers and see the back of the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits. “We need to upgrade our security infrastructure and re-strategise. The armed forces must renew efforts to make not only our schools safe for students but also our cities and villages. No development can occur in a climate of fear, uncertainty, and insecurity of lives and property. “I empathise with the agonised parents and relations of the abducted schoolboys and rejoice with them over the release of their children from the jaws of the abductors. These boys must now be reunited with their families.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .