Amref Health Africa has established an independent commission to review the continent’s progress towards achievement of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) targets by 2030.  The Africa Health Agenda International Conference (AHAIC) Commission on the State of UHC in Africa will, in addition to reviewing the continent’s progress, provide recommendations on leadership, accountability, technology/innovation and health security, to help guide the continent towards achieving UHC targets. The independent body will deliver its mandate through 11 commissioners selected from a range of disciplines and sectors across Africa; global experts and thought leaders who will provide valuable guidance, engage with key stakeholders and collate data to provide an accurate overview of African nations’ collective advancement towards UHC. The commissioners will also spotlight pressing challenges faced by different countries and work closely with governments, policy shapers and implementation teams to navigate them effectively for the delivery of health services to all. The AHAIC Commission’s immediate focus will be the production of a State of UHC in Africa Report. The report will provide a detailed account of steps taken by African governments to achieve UHC in their countries, reflecting on successes, barriers and lessons learned on the journey towards providing equitable access, quality health care and financial protection as envisioned within an African context. The findings of the report will be delivered at the fourth edition of the Amref-sponsored AHAIC Conference, which will be held from 8th to 10th March 2021. ‘‘The commissioners have a big task ahead of them. With only three months to the AHAIC Conference, they will be working with a multi-stakeholder team and employing various research methodologies to develop and deliver a comprehensive report that will inform subsequent UHC discussions in Africa. The report will serve as a reliable roadmap and reference point on progress made so far, as viewed through an African lens,’’ said Dr. Githinji Gitahi, Global CEO, Amref Health Africa and Co-Chair, UHC 2030 Steering Committee. Commenting on the selection criteria, Dr. Gitahi noted: ‘‘The selection committee has assembled a youth- and gender-inclusive commission that reflects the rich diversity of the continent and brings together experienced, versatile, well respected global health experts from across Africa.’’ The AHAIC 2019 resolution to achieve health targets through increasing access to health services; improving the effective delivery of quality health services; establishing mechanisms to guarantee adequate and sustainable public-led financing, and strengthening people-led accountability to safeguard transparency and efficiency at all levels. African countries’ commitment to the attainment of UHC must be followed by action, reflection, and more action. Progress will fundamentally hinge on genuine and sustained political action. This commission intends to help us all reflect on Africa’s UHC progress, successes and challenges, and articulate areas of action to accelerate progress,’’ noted Prof. Edwine Barasa, one of the Co-Chairs of the Commission. The Commissioners include: For the commissioners’ full biographies, please click here (https://bit.ly/33NmmMM). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Health Agenda International Conference (AHAIC). Media Contact:
Elizabeth (Lizz) Ntonjira
Global Communication Director
Amref Health Africa
Email: Elizabeth.Ntonjira@amref.org About AHAIC:
Since 2014, Amref Health Africa has been organizing the Africa Health Agenda International Conference (AHAIC) (www.AHAIC.org), bringing countries across the continent together to discuss African solutions to Africa’s most pressing health challenges. As a prominent Africa-led global health convening, this biennial conference spotlights diverse and dynamic voices from across sectors – ranging from world leaders to technical experts to community health workers – to collectively chart a course forward towards UHC. The 2021 conference will build off momentum from 2019, serving as a platform for cross-pollination of ideas and home-grown solutions to attaining UHC in Africa. Capitalizing on prominent partners and speakers, the upcoming 2021 virtual conference will focus on the greatest health challenges facing Africa and foster new ideas and commitments for tangible, actionable and achievable progress towards UHC. About Amref Health Africa:
Amref Health Africa (www.Amref.org/home), headquartered in Kenya, is the largest Africa-based International Non-Governmental Organisation (INGO). With a focus on increasing sustainable health access, Amref runs programmes in over 35 countries in Africa, with lessons learnt over 60 years of engagement with governments, communities and partners. Amref Health Africa also engages in programme development, fundraising, partnership, advocacy, monitoring and evaluation, and has offices in Europe and North America as well as subsidiaries: Amref Flying Doctors (www.FlyDoc.org), Amref Enterprises (www.Amref.org/enterprises) and the Amref International University (www.Amref.ac.ke). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .