• Civil Servants On Level 14 Below To Work From Home
Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, warned Lagos could slip into a second wave of COVID-19 if residents fail to comply with the precautionary measures against the spread of the virus. The governor disclosed that of every 100 tests that the state has carried out, an average of 10 turned out to be positive, an increase from the five per 100 recorded in September, though lower than the peak in August, which was between 20 and 30 per 100. “This suggests the existence of active community transmission and represents the very likely possibility of the emergence of a second wave in Lagos State. “This second wave calls for a full re-awakening of caution and precaution. The complacency that crept in over the last few months as a result of our early interventions when cases started to decline from our peak in August must now give way to an abundance of vigilance.” As a measure against a possible second wave, Sanwo-Olu asked all public servants from GL 14 and below, except emergency workers and first responders, to work from home from Monday, December 21 for the next 14 days, in the first instance. He also said all schools must shut down with immediate effect and until further notice, while concerts, carnivals and street parties are banned until further notice, just as nightclubs must immediately shut down until further notice. Sanwo-Olu added that the midnight to 4am curfew imposed by the Federal Government remains, while the protocol of ‘No Mask No Entry’ must be enforced by all public places, including offices, businesses, markets, shops, etc and must be adhered to. The governor further said all places of worship must ensure that no gathering exceeds two hours and also that no gathering exceeds 50 per cent of the maximum capacity of the venue, while all event planners must obtain prior clearance from the Lagos State Safety Commission for all events and ensure that any planned gatherings does not exceed 300 people. He said where the capacity of a venue exceeds 300 and permission has been granted, the occupancy shall not be more than 50 per cent of such a venue. “The Commission has been directed to visit event centres and gauge compliance with the established guidelines to stop the virus from spreading. If there is evidence of lack of compliance at any event centre, it will be shut down immediately. “Security agents have been mandated to ensure full enforcement without exception. No one will be deemed to be above the law. Any and all breaches of these regulations and public health protocols will lead to immediate closure, as well as attract heavy fines and any other sanctions and penalties deemed fit, in line with the Lagos State Infectious Diseases Control Regulation 2020. “Event centre owners/planners/vendors will be responsible for any breach of protocols by their staff. “We will continue to closely watch the profile of the unfolding situation, while also awaiting updates and pronouncements from the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19. “We will also keep working with the PTF to ensure that the gains of the recent past are not frittered away on the altar of festivities and sheer carelessness. The lives of all Lagosians, including our elders and other vulnerable citizens, matter.” Sanwo-Olu implored residents to take responsibility for the welfare and safety of all while they enjoy the festive season with friends and families, adding: “Let us use this festive season to spend quality time in small, but controlled gatherings with family and friends in the spirit of the season. This virus does not discriminate; we must take responsibility, and not treat this pandemic with levity.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .