 Wike  Wike said he had rejected such offers and had not remained silent over the wrongs being perpetrated by the All Progressives Congress (APC), insisting that he could not join the APC due to the need to strengthen the confidence of Nigerians in the PDP. He noted that it was unimaginable to think that he would quit a party that continued to hold promises of good governance for the country, adding that the PDP was the only hope for Nigerians, who are waiting to vote it into power in 2023. Wike stated this yesterday during the unveiling of Chief Orabule Adiele Road, Rumuolumeni, formerly known as Aker-Base Road, by Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu in Rumuolumeni Community, Obio/Akpor Council of Rivers State. “PDP is the party Nigerians want. No matter the intimidation, it will not work. We are men of character. When we say something, we stand by whatever we say, not for financial interest. “I am not that kind of governor, I know how many times people have tried to woo us and we said no. We cannot be wooed. We started with PDP and will end with PDP. “We have no other party to join because the fate of this country, the hope of Nigerians, solely depend on PDP.  That is why when we talk about the party, we don’t talk about any selfish interests, but we will continue to give Nigerians what they are waiting for. “So, when there is any mistake, we shout out. Everybody is hoping that in 2023 PDP should take over the reins of power in the country. Rivers State is already secured for PDP,” he stated. He berated the National Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Committee, James Akpanudoedehe, describing him as a political prostitute, who lackscharacter to talk about national issues without subjecting them to monetary interests. “He (Akpanudoedehe) said I am playing to the gallery and that I am economical with the truth and that, after all, the Federal Government has been fighting insecurity and giving us bailout money. “Bailout money is not free money. We are paying back the money, but even if the Federal Government gave us free money, does it mean if things are going wrong, we should not talk? “We agree that there are problems in the country. Even the governors agreed that we have serious security challenges. We are overwhelmed with security challenges, but those who have responsibility to fix  security in Nigeria are not delivering,” he added. Speaking, Ikpeazu, described Governor Wike as “a brand, an icon and symbol of everything good and a blessing to the country.” He said using concrete pavements construct roads came with the understanding that it was the best for the topography of the state and designed to last long, urging the people to use the road well. Rivers State Commissioner for Works, Elloka Tasie-Amadi, said the poor state of the road impeded movement and frustrated commerce, but respite had come to residents and companies operating in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .