 Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi  Governing Council and Management of the Enugu State College of Education (Technical) ESCET have commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for his commitment and intervention towards the growth and development of the college. Speaking when management and academic staff of the college visited to present an Award of Fellow of Enugu State College of Education (Technical), Enugu (FESCET), Chairman of the Council, Mrs. Fidelia Akuabata Njeze, stressed that the governor’s support for the institution was unprecedented. Njeze stated that prior to the inception of the present administration in 2015, the college faced challenges of non-accreditation of courses for over 10 years, which resulted in non-issuance of certificates to graduates of the college and threatened its existence as a tertiary institution. She disclosed that Ugwuanyi’s administration gave the college financial support when the institution sought assistance to meet the requirements of the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) and National Universities Commission (NUC) to obtain accreditation. “Today, all our courses at the NCE, NCCE and Degree levels with the NUC in affiliation with the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Awka, have been accredited,” Njeze said. She  disclosed that Governor Ugwuanyi’s interventions ensured that the college successfully held its first consolidated convocation ceremony from 2009 to 2020 in October this year. Njeze, therefore, informed the governor that she and her team visited with his (Ugwuanyi’s) approval to conclude the ceremony, which she said, could not be concluded without his participation. She also commended the governor for the construction of a Computer Based Test Centre (CBT) Hall with a seating capacity for 250 students, which she said, was 95 per cent completed, first modern students’ hostel since the college was created out of IMT, Enugu, as well as “prompt and regular release of monthly subventions to the college,” among others. Speaking, the Provost of the College, Dr. Osondu Eze, lauded Ugwuanyi for his administration’s support, saying: “It is unprecedented that for the past 13 years of the establishment of this college, you are the only governor who approved our convocation and issuing of certificates to out graduates.” He pointed out that the era of no certificate was over, adding: “We have over 10,000 certificates waiting for graduates to collect.” Eze urged those who passed through ESCET and have obtained clearance to visit the institution for collection of their certificates. Responding, Ugwuanyi thanked God and the college for the honour and restated his administration’s commitment to continue to change the school’s narrative, notwithstanding that the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and the associated economic and security challenges had affected government’s programmes at all levels.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .