Adewale APC says victory indicates people’s confidence in Sanwo-Olu 
A Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Lagos State Chapter, Otunba Segun Adewale, has expressed disappointment over the just-concluded Lagos East Senatorial District election, blaming some leaders of the party for making their candidate, Babatunde Olalere Gbadamosi, lose the election to the opposition. Adewale, who spoke with The Guardian, yesterday, queried how PDP could get such low votes in about 74 wards in Lagos East, comprising five local councils, adding that the party has no fewer than 20 exco members and over 1,000 members in each ward. The party chieftain said the embarrassing result could be linked to the way and manner the leaders handled the election, lamenting that he did not see the cohesion needed to deliver their candidate for the party. He said some of the party leaders and executives went about complaining that the PDP candidate has no grassroots connection and supporters, instead of them focusing on how to make the party win the bye-election. However, Adewale blamed the party’s state Chairman, Deji Doherty, for not calling a general assembly of the party members to discuss the strategy for the election, either private or publicly, which lend credence to those saying that he is working for the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC). Adewale said: “It is sad that after the election, the state chairman could be lamenting in the media, while he failed to provide leadership and support for the candidate before the election. “If it is only party members and excos that voted, the result should not have been so bad like what we saw as the outcome. Out of the about 20 excos in each ward and local councils, they have friends and family members that should vote, while each of the 1,000 members in our wards should also be able to influence at least a member of their circle or family to vote.” Adewale said something was fundamentally wrong with the entire process internally, calling on stakeholders to audit what happened that led to the poor outing so as to guide against a repeat in future elections. MEANWHILE, Lagos State Chapter of the APC has said that the victories recorded by the senator-elect, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru and Kosofe Constituency II lawmaker-elect, Mr. Femi Saheed, in the just-concluded Lagos East bye-elections, were as a result of the landmark achievements of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. In a statement, yesterday, the state’s Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Seye Oladejo, said the euphoria generated by the peaceful conduct and the unassailable victory of APC in the elections showcased the confidence of the people in Sanwo-Olu. The party said the Saturday bye-elections presented an opportunity to access the performance of the administration and most especially its response to the unexpected challenges.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .