Canon Europe (www.Canon-europe.com) today announces a collection of firmware updates for several of its camcorders. Users of the XF405 / XF400 (Firmware 1.0.5.0), XA55 / XA50 (Firmware 1.0.1.0), XA40 (Firmware 1.0.1.0), Canon 4K Legria HF G60 and HF G50 (Firmware 1.0.1.0) will all receive detailed firmware updates that will enhance creative ability, image quality and functionality.  Previously only able to record in MP4 150Mbs, users of the XA40 can now enjoy the professional format of XF-AVC via the update. The added recording format features additional metadata, giving users greater creative ability in post-production. The following XF-AVC recording modes have been added to the XA40: All camcorders with available firmware updates will see a new feature, named Custom Picture, that allows users to adjust image settings such as, sharpness, saturation, skin detail and noise reduction. This new feature gives users enhanced creative flexibility. In addition to this, for improved customisation the camcorders will now be able to allocate additional features to assignable buttons, such as zebra, peaking and markers. Updates to the XF405 / XF400 and XA55 / XA50 specifically add EOS Standard and Production Camera colour matrix to the custom picture parameter. For increased consistency across the final output’s look, users of these camcorders can now change the colour matrix to better match the image of other cameras on the same production. What’s more, such camcorders will also see Canon Log 3 added – giving users more dynamic range post-production. The XF405 / XF400, XA55 / XA50, and HF G50 / HF G60 all receive improved autofocus accuracy when using zoom when updated – an important feature and an example of how Canon continues to enable high-quality results. Further recognising this, the XF405 / XF400 updates will also bring improved image quality when using Digital Zoom Advanced 30X mode – a positive enhancement for those that use FHD extended zoom. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. rania.elrafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .