Five contenders for the president-general of Ohanaeze Ndigbo will Saturday, December 12, 2020 face Igbo indigenes worldwide in an interactive session with a view to unveiling their manifestoes for the progress and development of the Southeast. The aspirants listed in the interactive session, who would be broadcast virtually through Zoom are, Prof. Chidi Osuagwu, Dr. Joe Nwaorgu, Dr. Chris Asoluka, Chief Goddy Uwazurike, and Prof. George Obiozor. The Guardian learnt that the event, being organised by a Coalition of Igbo Organisations Worldwide, would enable the contenders to feel the pulse of the people, adding that the several allegations that have trailed the conduct of the Ohanaeze elections would also come to play. A statement issued by the Coalition’s leaders, Austin Okeke and Gideon Adikwuru, revealed that the country’s state of affairs demanded that Ndigbo should collectively choose those who would lead the apex socio-cultural organisation. They noted that the challenges occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic necessitated the use of the virtual platform to hold the session for Igbo across the world. “Zoom provides us an alternative to reach out to Igbo across the globe. With the online meeting, Ndigbo in the Diaspora and in Nigeria will be able to connect directly to hear from the aspirants. “The Igbo nation has its principles built on democratic republicanism, therefore, making it one of the oldest democracies in the world. The virtual meeting traverses Nigeria’s borders such that Igbo in China, United Kingdom, America, Ghana, South Africa, or Alaba Market can watch real-time,” the statement reads. It added that the interactive session would present an avenue into the feelings of the people about the organisation, stressing that on January 11, 2021, delegates from Abia, Anambra, Anioma in Delta, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo, and Ikwerre in Rivers would elect new leaders for the Ohanaeze Ndigbo.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .