Elliot page | Image: ABC News Elliot Page, who starred in Oscar-winning teen pregnancy comedy “Juno”, has announced he is transgender. Born Ellen Page, Elliot publicly came out as a transgender and shared his preferred pronouns on a variety of social media platforms: “Hi friends, I want to share with you that I am trans, my pronouns are he/they and my name is Elliot.” “I feel lucky to be writing this. To be here. To have arrived at this place in my life,” the 33-year-old Canadian actor added. “I feel lucky to be writing this. To be here. To have arrived at this place in my life. I feel overwhelming gratitude for the incredible people who have supported me along this journey. I can’t begin to express how remarkable it feels to finally love who I am enough to pursue my authentic self. I’ve been endlessly inspired by so many in the trans community. Thank you for your courage, your generosity and ceaselessly working to make this world a more inclusive and compassionate place. I will offer whatever support I can and continue to strive for a more loving and equal society.” Elliot Page with Michael Cera in Juno | Image: Hollywood reporter Page, who rose to fame as the pregnant teenage girl in the hit comedy film “Juno”, asked his followers and fans for ‘patience’, admitting that he is ‘scared’ of the ‘invasiveness, the hate, the jokes, and of the violence’ that he may face moving forward. “I also ask for patience. My joy is real, but it is also fragile. The truth is, despite feeling profoundly happy right now and knowing how much privilege I carry, I am also scared. I’m scared of the invasiveness, the hate, the “jokes” and of violence. To be clear, I am not trying to dampen a moment that is joyous and one that I celebrate, but I want to address the full picture. “The statistics are staggering. The discrimination towards trans people is rife, insidious and cruel, resulting in horrific consequences. In 2020 alone it has been reported that at least 40 transgender people have been murdered, the majority of which were Black and Latinx trans women. “To the political leaders who work to criminalize trans healthcare and deny our right to exist and to all of those with a massive platform who continue to spew hostility towards the trans community: you have blood on your hands. You unleash a fury of vile and demeaning rage that lands on the shoulders of the trans community, a community in which 40% of trans adults report attempting suicide. Enough is enough. You aren’t being “cancelled,” you are hurting people. I am one of those people and we won’t be silent in the face of your attacks.” Page concluded: “I love that I am trans. And I love that I am queer. And the more I hold myself close and fully embrace who I am, the more I dream, the more my heart grows and the more I thrive. To all the trans people who deal with harassment, self-loathing, abuse, and the threat of violence every day: I see you, I love you, and I will do everything I can to change this world for the better.” Page came out as gay in 2014, telling an audience in Las Vegas: “I am tired of hiding and I am tired of lying by omission.” Page had his cinematic breakthrough with the title role in Jason Reitman’s film Juno (2007), earning nominations for an Academy Award, a BAFTA Award, a Critics’ Choice Awards, a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award. He has earned praise for roles in The Tracey Fragments (2007), Whip It (2009), Super (2010), Inception (2010), and Tallulah (2016).