Sean Dampte As the year comes to an end, the Nigerian–UK based Afrobeat recording artiste, Oluwaseun Oluyole, who is better known by the stage name, Sean Dampte, has concluded plans to make the yuletide season fun filled and memorable, as he is set to release a single, entitled Flash Lights and Paparazzi, to delight of his teeming fans. The singer, who took the continent by storm with his perfect concoction of Afrobeat and world music, which he delivers uniquely with style, is loved for his brand of music that gets everyone up and on the dance floor. His Amapiano sound is another amazing offering and possible Christmas gift he is giving the world this yuletide, as he encourages listeners to be their best while having a good time. With influences from music greats like Warren G, Wale and LL Cool J, the Savage Music Limited artiste in this new offering, once again demonstrated his creativity and versatility, as he brings untamable groove to the world again, thus helping listeners to enjoy the yuletide season in style. His use of ‘Alhaji’, a term for describing someone who is living his life to the fullest in the African culture, resonates with lovers of Afrobeat and consequently, he has blessed the ears of music lovers in different parts of the world with his soul-lifting tune that inspires living the good life. Speaking about the year, Sean Dempte said: “2020 has not been the best of years for millions of people and there cannot be a better time to enjoy the true benefits of music – relaxing tensed nerves, than now.” He described the new offering as “the coolest song your ears are going to be blessed with this yuletide season. Flash Lights and Paparazzi is a lifestyle anthem of the wish of the new generation youths.” According to the Awoodah General, as he is fondly called, Flash Lights and Paparazzi will become available across all major streaming platforms on December 25. He has endeared himself to music lovers and caught the attention of music heavyweights across the globe, as he has worked with the likes of Joey Benks, Tay Dizm, Mr Real, Buju, and Wande Coal.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .