 [FILES] Chief of Air Staff; Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar; Chief of Naval Staff; Vice Marshal Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas; Chief of Army Staff; Lt. General Tukur Yusufu Buratai and Chief of Defence Staff; General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin.  A retired professor of Political Science at the University of Ibadan (UI), Osisioma Nwolise, has said that changing the service chiefs in the country 300 times would not change the security situation. Nwolise, who did research on spiritual security, stated this, yesterday, at the sideline of the activities marking the 70th birthday of the Ekefa Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oloye Lekan Alabi, at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan. He lamented that the security of the country was going down. He, therefore, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assemble those who understood security to help in tackling insecurity in the land. Nwolise said: “All of us know that the security of the country has gone down. Both at the physical and spiritual levels, the country is very unsafe. We need to sit down co-operatively, collaboratively, and map out strategies to save this country. “It is beyond the military. We have overstretched the military. “I am not among those who are shouting that the service chiefs should be removed. Removing service chiefs does not solve the problem. What is required is for the President to call those who know about security and get adequate advice on what to do. If you remove the service chiefs and you don’t get the political will to do what is required, nothing would change. “You can change all the service chiefs 300 times but if the political will to do the right thing is not there, there will be no change. So, the President should call those who know what it takes that will give him correct advice and then let the service chiefs map out their strategies and give them the weapons to fight. Let’s equip the military. The military has done well outside the country. Let’s give them proper equipment and they would do the job.” Dignitaries at the event included the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III; Chief Bayo Adelabu, Chief (Mrs.) Julie Coker, a businesswoman, Chief Nike Akande, former First Lady of Oyo State, Chief (Mrs.) Mutiat Ladoja; Ambassador Ronke Adefowope and others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .