Glo wants Nigerians to make a change
MTN Group Chief Executive Officer, Ralph Mupita said the telecommunications firm welcome the deadline extension, and will continue to work with the Nigerian authorities on the National Identity Number (NIN) process. Mupita, who stated this yesterday, said MTN’s efforts of bringing in new registration machines that can do NIN enrollment will be augmented and accelerated by the firm’s ability to directly link the NIN records of subscribers to their SIM registration data. According to him, MTN will continue to work with the Ministerial task force to further establish implementation processes and timelines for execution. The telecoms firm is expected to bring in some 14, 000 devices for the NIN registration in another two weeks. In a related development, 9mobile, has launched what it described as an intelligent portal for instant verification to help its customers link their SIM cards with their NIN. The Online Self-Service NIN update portal, which has already gone live on the 9mobile website, enables subscribers to verify and update their NINs instantly. This platform provides 9mobile subscribers an opportunity to submit and verify their NIN without physically visiting any of the Experience Centers across the nation. This step is one of the several proactive initiatives taken by 9mobile to make the NIN linking exercise directed by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) seamless and stress-free for its subscribers. Commenting on the exercise, the Chief Information Officer, 9mobile, Ibikunle Jimo, said that as a customer- centric telecoms company, 9mobile always looked out for the convenience of its subscribers by leveraging innovation. “Immediately, we received the NCC directive to link all SIMs with the respective subscribers’ NIN; we challenged our IT and network teams to develop a seamless and stress-free solution for our customers.” MEANWHILE, in the spirit of the season, Globacom has called on Nigerians to make a change and be the difference this festive period. Glo said as Christians all over the world mark this year’s Christmas, Nigerians should strive to make a positive change in their various fields of endeavour. Glo asked Nigerians to spread love, joy and peace following the teachings of Jesus Christ whose birth is being commemorated. “Make a change, be the difference and push the limits of your success to new heights this festive season and beyond”, Globacom counseled. “Christ came to the world in human form to show the love of God towards mankind. His love and concern for humanity are shown by the sacrifice He made by leading man back to God. Jesus made himself a perfect example of the values of love, humility, kindness, righteous living and fruits of the spirit which would guarantee eternal life”, the company noted. The statement added: “We all should allow the birth of the Prince of Peace to engender progress and amity in society by displaying acts of good neighbourliness, selflessness and unity amongst citizens”. Globacom assured its millions of subscribers of seamless voice, data and Short Messaging Service (SMS) during and after the Christmas and New Year holidays. “We encourage them to avail themselves of the 10 per cent bonus offer on E-Top up recharges currently on offer”, it stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .