Blue Prism (AIM: PRSM) (https://www.BluePrism.com/) today announced the availability of Blue Prism intelligent automation software in AWS Marketplace, giving Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Blue Prism customers another avenue for automation in the cloud.  The listing includes Blue Prism on an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) instance with a set number of digital workers, plus connectors for Amazon Textract, Amazon Rekognition, and Amazon Comprehend machine learning capabilities. This expanded collaboration builds on our existing relationship with AWS and underscores Blue Prism’s cloud-first intelligent automation strategy. “This AWS Marketplace offering makes it easy for customers to add digital workers with embedded AWS machine learning skills to their intelligent automation arsenal, quickly deploy on AWS, and leverage consolidated billing through their AWS enterprise agreements,” says Linda Dotts, chief partner strategy officer at Blue Prism. “Customers can easily purchase from AWS Marketplace and continue their intelligent automation journey with just a click of a button, spinning up digital workers as needed – and without the worries or incremental cost of setting up underlying infrastructure.” The Blue Prism offering in AWS Marketplace gives customers an easy way to purchase digital worker licenses and start automating faster via AWS. It includes:  Find out more Explore these offerings in AWS Marketplace (https://amzn.to/2JuUNkA) and start automating today. For more about Blue Prism’s relationship with AWS and how we work together, visit our website (https://bit.ly/2I615qd). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Blue Prism. Media Contact:
Paul Taylor
Blue Prism
paul.taylor@blueprism.com About Blue Prism:
Blue Prism (https://www.BluePrism.com/) is the global leader in intelligent automation for the enterprise, transforming the way work is done. At Blue Prism, we have users in over 170 countries in more than 2,000 businesses, including Fortune 500 and public sector organisations, that are creating value with new ways of working, unlocking efficiencies, and returning millions of hours of work back into their businesses. Our digital workforce is smart, secure, scalable and accessible to all; freeing up humans to re-imagine work. Blue Prism’s vision is to provide a digital workforce for every enterprise. To learn more visit https://www.BluePrism.com/ and follow us on Twitter @blue_prism and on LinkedIn (https://bit.ly/3lUkB7c). © 2020 Blue Prism Limited. “Blue Prism”, the “Blue Prism” logo and Prism device are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Blue Prism Limited and its affiliates. All Rights Reserved. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .