 Dutch manager and former player Ruud Gullit (L) and British sports journalist Reshmin Chowdhury (R) looks on as FIFA President Gianni Infantino (C-L) appears on a screen awarding The Best FIFA Men’s player award to Bayern Munchen’s Polish forward Robert Lewandowski during The Best FIFA Football Awards 2020 ceremony, at the FIFA headquarters in Zurich, on December 17, 2020. (Photo by VALERIANO DI DOMENICO / POOL / AFP)  The 32-year-old Lewandowski, top scorer in Europe and winner of the Champions League with Bayern, came out ahead of the other two nominees, Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo. England defender Lucy Bronze took the women’s award, seeing off the challenge of Wendie Renard and Pernille Harder. It is the first occassion for both Lewandowski and Bronze to win the award, with the Pole only the second player after Luka Modric in 2018 to break a 13-year Messi-Ronaldo hegemony. Lewandowski’s stellar season for all-conquering Bayern has already been recognised by UEFA who awarded the Polish striker European player of the year in October. While he has won the Bundesliga in each of his first six seasons at Bayern, finishing as the league’s top scorer in four of the last five seasons, his international profile has been hurt in the past by Poland’s mediocre form and his previous failure, at Dortmund and Bayern, to win the Champions League. Last season, he was spectacular as Bayern won every game in Europe including the Champions League final against Paris St-Germain. Lewandowski finished with 15 goals in the competition, five more than the next best striker, Erling Braut Haaland. His Bayern teammate Manuel Neuer was chosen as ‘The Best’ FIFA men’s goalkeeper. Bronze, 29, who succeeds last year’s winner Megan Rapinoe, won the Champions League with Lyon in August before moving back to England to play for Manchester City. She was a suprise winner ahead of her former Lyon teammate Renard, and striker Harder, who moved from Wolfsburg to Chelsea in early September. France and Lyon’s Sarah Bouhaddi capped her fine career with The Best FIFA women’s goalkeeper award. Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp was named men’s coach of the year while current Dutch women’s national team boss Sarina Wiegman took the women’s award for the second time in her career following her 2017 success. The Puskas Award for best goal went to Tottenham’s South Korean striker Son Heung-min for a mazy, individual goal he scored against Burnley in the Premier League in December 2019. The Best awards began in 2017 after a brief merger with the Ballon D’Or, which was cancelled this year because of coronavirus, and the FIFA Player of the Year award, which was created in 1991.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .