 Buhari. Photo: TWITTER/NIGERIAGOV.  Curiously, this happened when the President is ostensibly on a visit to his home town of Daura, Katsina State. He is still there till tomorrow. The level of insecurity in the country has been so high that no one is safe. Killings, kidnapping, armed robbery, and sundry other vices have been routinised. What is puzzling is the fact that the incumbent government of Buhari before ascension to power had campaigned based on reversing the insurgency and general insecurity in the country. Not a few believed that as a retired General of the Nigerian army, tackling insecurity would be mincemeat for the former head of state. Evidently, the government has failed woefully. Only those who live a lie would deny this fact. The country has never been this bad and boxed into a corner where the state vested with the security of lives and property has proven incapable of that function.
 
It should be emphasised here that the “reason of state” is the protection of lives and property. This question remains weighty that it deserved the attention of the enlightenment philosophers of yore, such as John Locke (1632-1704) and Jean Jacques Rousseau (1712-1778). John Locke unlike Thomas Hobbes, who saw the state of nature as a state of war where life was not only nasty but was brutish and short, saw it differently. Locke had noted that the state of nature was one of perfect freedom governed by reason and the desire for the perpetuation of humanity. The quest for decisive power to appeal warranted the transition to civil society, that is the state. So for Locke civil society is the flipside of the state of nature, and the former is: “…a common established law and judicature to appeal to, with authority to decide controversies between them and punish offenders, are in civil society one with another; but those who have no such common appeal, I mean on earth, are still in the state of nature…”. According to Rousseau who was seized of the matter also saw the state of nature as one of freedom. In his case, the weight of nature in its precariousness requires that man transits into civil society. According to him: “ We might also add that man acquires with civil society, moral freedom, which alone makes man the master of himself; for to be governed by appetite alone is slavery, while obedience to a law one prescribes to oneself is freedom.” The 1999 Constitution which flows generously from the waters of western philosophy, states in Section 14 (2) (b) that the protection of lives and property is the primary purpose of government, and logically the reason of state. The incumbent state actors have failed in their duty concerning governmentality engrossed in the constitution given the general insecurity that now governs social relations in the country. We are obliged to draw attention to the aspects of the many contradictions of the tottering Nigerian state which Soronnadi Njoku, the former Imo State Attorney-General lucidly enumerated in an interview with this medium. The contradictions are domiciled in the judiciary and the security sector, and he wished they should be the subject of an amendment – to the constitution.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .