‘I’m glad to beat another Ghanaian, says Fijabi For years, Argentina always had the upper hands over Nigeria in sporting activities, particularly in football. But the reverse was the case on Sunday night in Ibadan, venue of the World Boxing Federation (WBF) super featherweight title fight between Nigeria’s Ridwan ‘Scorpion’ Oyekola and Matias Montesino Lucas of Argentina. The historic fight came 57 years in the same city, where Nigeria’s Dick Tiger became the WBC Middleweight champion by knocking out America’s Gene Fullman in the seventh round. Unlike the battle at the Liberty Stadium in August 1963, the WBF fight between ‘Scorpion’ and Argentine’s Lucas held at the Ilaji Sports Resort, Ibadan. It turned out to be an action-packed bout, dragging into the 10th round with both boxers thrilling the spectators. Oyekola won via a unanimous decision, securing 97 points against Lucas’ 87. The president of the WBF, Howard Goldberg, presented the belt to ‘Scorpion’. In two international bouts decided earlier, Sadiku Akeem Dodo defeated his opponent from Cote d’Ivoire, George John Kuffour with TKO in the fifth round, while Olaide Fijabi retained his WABU belt by beating Moses Dodzi of Ghana in the third round.
   
In October last year, Fijabi was scheduled to defend his African Boxing Union (ABU) Super Lightweight title against France-based Senegalese boxer, Abderrazak Houya, in Dakar, Senegal, but he sustained a deep cut above the left eye during a training session in Lagos. The injury did not heal on time for the fight, and in the process, Fijabi was stripped of the title despite his appeal for a two-week grace. The victory against Moses Dodzi in Ibadan on Sunday was the third for Fijabi against a Ghanaian boxer. “I feel so excited to beat another Ghanaian inside the ring, Fijabi told The Guardian yesterday. “I trained hard for the fight, and I am glad I got the victory. I am happy to be back.” In other bouts, Taiwo Olanrewaju defeated Abdullah Adesokan within 47 seconds by technical knockout (TKO), while Ridwan Lawal also recorded another TKO against Dare Oyewole in the second round. Ayobamiji Azeez defeated Moses Samuel Apata Roro via unanimous decision in the third bout, just as Oladeji Abeeb, popular known as Ige (Chest), beat Aliu Akintayo via a knock out in round four. In the only women’s bout, Blessing Godwin knocked out Adeola Olalere. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .