Principal, Queen’s College, Lagos, Dr Tokunbo Yakubu-Oyinloye, has urged graduating students of the school to serve as role models to the girl-child and be the much-needed catalyst that would steer the country to greatness. Speaking at the valedictory service and graduation ceremony of the class of 2020 of the school, Yakubu-Oyinloye said with the leadership qualities instilled in them, the girls have what it takes to do the nation proud. The theme for this year’s celebration is ‘Achieving greatness; Against all odds.’ Yakubu-Oyinloye noted that the college had laid foundations of hard work and excellence in character and academics for its students, which had been displayed in the several success stories recorded over the years. The principal, however, pleaded with the Federal Government to prevail on the National Examinations Council (NECO) to expedite action in conducting its examination on some of the subjects postponed in the wake of the nationwide #ENDSARS protest. ‘’Our students still have a couple of outstanding papers left and we want to plead with NECO to urgently do something about it so as to facilitate their placements into tertiary institutions of their choice,’’ the principal pleaded. She also enjoined the girls to always aim for the best, as they have been groomed for the top. Chief Executive Officer, AXA Mansard Health, Mr Tope Adeniyi, also urged the governments at all levels to raise the standard of teaching and learning in the country by investing in technologies if the country intends to be globally competitive. According to Adeniyi, who was the guest speaker at the event, the world is moving at a very fast pace with technologies and Nigeria cannot afford to lag behind, especially in the area of accelerated development. ‘We are raising 21st Century children and there is need for them to be empowered with technology-driven platforms that would enable them learn effectively. “Look at what happened during the peak of the pandemic in the country. We were practically overwhelmed applying technologies to carry on with life generally because most of life’s endeavours were carried out through technologies. So, the government needs to step up in making our educational system, particularly in all our federal schools, to be technology-driven. ‘’These children are going to be facing global challenges where their counterparts the world over are all technologically savvies, as they keep learning through such platforms,’’ he said. Adeniyi said giving the right orientation on technology, secondary school students should be able to write programmes if equipped with laptops and other internet devices. He added that students should be able to bring to bear their innovative instincts while still in secondary school so that by the time they proceed to the university, they would already be creating solutions to life’s challenges. In his goodwill message, Principal, King’s College, Lagos, Mr Andrew Agada, urged the girls to be good ambassadors of their college and always strive to be role models to other girls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .