 Tokunbo Abiru  The December 5, 2020 Lagos East bye-election continues to generate negative impact within the Lagos chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The party’s senatorial candidate, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi, lost to Senator Tokunbo Abiru, candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), who was declared winner by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
  
The loss led to the the controversial suspension of the state’s chairman, Mr. Adedeji Doherty, last Friday. The Secretary, Mr. Muiz Shodipe and the Publicity Secretary, Mr. Taofik Gani, alleged that the chairman is guilty of financial mismanagement and anti-party activities. Doherty’s suspension followed a vote of no confidence passed on him.  According to him; “Rather than looking for what would benefit the general interest of the party, Doherty has been demanding loyalty to himself or declaring members as “persona non grata”, if they are unwilling.”
 
Other allegations against Doherty include lack of transparency in management and accountability of party finances and administration, failure to convene state assembly meetings since he assumed office, polarising the state working committee by not involving members, who strongly disagreed with his leadership style in running the affairs of the party.
 
Doherty was also accused of hobnobbing with the ruling APC regularly and jettisoning all strategies aimed at winning Lagos East Senatorial bye-election and his failure, contrary to the constitution of the PDP, to operate a bank account for the party. He was accused of using a personal bank account for party affairs.
 
On the basis of the above allegations, Shodipe and Gani, with the support of other executive members, said Doherty no longer enjoyed the confidence of party members and therefore recommended him for immediate suspension from all activities of the party.  Present at the meeting, where they were suspended, according to Doherty, were 35 executive members who voted in favour of the decision and 18 out of 20 local government party chairmen who also voted in favour of the decision. “All the members present unanimously resolved to invoke the relevant disciplinary provisions as enshrined in the party constitution i.e Chapter 10, Section (1), (2), (3) and (4) and Section 58, subsection (a), (b), (c), (f), (h), (i), and (j) as amended in 2017.”
 
The embattled chairman added that Shodipe was accused of calling and attending an illegal meeting where he was purportedly removed against the party’s constitution. Controversial bye-election primary
THE Guardian, however, found out from conflicting statements from both camps that there is more to Doherty’s suspension than meets the eye. In the first place, the chairman was accused of having deliberately tailored the PDP primary for the Lagos East bye-election to favour Gbadamosi, not because he wanted the party to win but that the candidate would not be able to bid for the coming 2023 governorship ticket with him (Doherty).
 
This decision forced other contestants for the ticket to withdraw from the race and those who participated showed little or no interest in campaigning for Gbadamosi.
 
One of the contestants, Princess Abiodun Oyefusi, who was the Lagos PDP senatorial candidate in 2019, considered to have stronger grassroots grip and better chance than Gbadamosi, also stepped down. She did not campaign for the party.
 
Prior to the election, Gani had disclosed to The Guardian that Oyefusi could have been a better candidate to present instead of Gbadamosi, but for certain reasons. Interestingly, Doherty blamed the emergence of Gbadamosi on Chief George, who he said foisted Ggbadamosi on the party, in collaboration with Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State.
 
“It was obvious that Gbadamosi is not our preferred candidate but Oyefusi,” Doherty had said. “It was therefore a lie that I deliberately tailored the primary to favour a particular aspirant.”
 
Recalled that in the process that led to the primary and the bye-election proper, Governor Makinde, who had been having issues with the former governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, over who should be leader of Southwest PDP, visited Chief George at his Luggard office in Ikoyi to mend fences, but Doherty was conspicuously absent. Many then felt that the embattled chairman might not have been favourably disposed to Gbadamosi’s candidature for the bye-election. Fayose, Makinde factor 
THE subtle supremacy rift between Fayose and the governor of Oyo State, Makinde, over control of Southwest PDP has also played a critical role in the crack in the Lagos chapter. The Doherty faction believes that Fayose, a two-term governor and former chairman PDP Governor’s Forum, who has been vocal against the shortcomings of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government, has what it takes to lead the party. The camp also alleged that Makinde, in collaboration with some disgruntled members, wants an unpopular person to be Southwest PDP deputy national chairman instead of Dr. Eddy Olafeso. Meanwhile, Adetokunbo Pearse, who was the director of Gbadamosi Senatorial campaign team, said the embattled state chairman is guilty of many atrocities against the party. “For instance, Doherty deliberately abandoned the party’s secretariat and took necessary party meetings to his 10 Degree Event Centre, where he only invited those he wanted,” Pearse said. “He is also fraternising with the ruling APC against the interest of PDP.”
  
Pearse further lamented that PDP under Doherty was an extension of APC, adding that those who accused Doherty of working for APC are right because “there is no way any sane member of PDP would have supported Fayose, who we all know to be a stooge to the national leader of APC, Bola Tinubu.”
  
Pearse also chided Doherty as the only elected chairman of Lagos PDP who did not record any achievement worth mentioning while in office.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .