The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mohammed Umar Abba, has said that the anti-graft agency secured 865 convictions from a total of 1,305 cases it filed in courts in 2020. He also revealed that a total of 7,340 cases were being investigated out of the 10, 152 petitions received by the commission. The EFCC also recorded “humongous” cash recoveries and seizure of significant number of assets from persons indicted for corruption, following due legal process. Abba, who made the disclosures in his end-of-year message, thanked the staff of the commission for their dedication, diligence and sacrifices in the discharge of their duties, which contributed to the feat recorded in 2020. Describing the year under review as “unique for obvious reasons”,  Abba lamented that the commission’s projections anchored on a strategic vision were greatly slowed down by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The lockdown enforced as part of measures to stem the spread of the deadly virus precipitated a scale down of our operations.  For more than five months, activities were at the lowest ebb in our 17-year history as an institution. “Also, a reform process that witnessed a change in the leadership of the commission naturally created anxiety among critical stakeholders. “However, the commission, in spite of the overwhelming odds, was still able to achieve significant milestones across the spectrum of its work,” the acting chairman said. Abba expressed desire to make the EFCC more effective through expansion of its activities, strengthening existing collaborations with other law enforcement agencies, building new linkages with relevant stakeholders and improving on its processes and procedures. The EFCC boss, who reassured the staff of the management’s commitment to their welfare at all times in order to ensure greater performance, stated: “ As a dynamic and responsive organisation, we will continually engage staff and review policies to motivate all for greater performance. I am confident that we can face the future together. My faith is premised on our collective strength to uphold the oath which we took to rid Nigeria of corruption.” According to Abba, “No adversity can shake this faith, as we look to the future with renewed zeal, holding aloft the blazing flame of anti-corruption. “ He charged the staff to be more committed to the anti-graft campaign, saying :”If the EFCC fails, the fight against corruption in Nigeria is imperiled.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .