A coalition of South-West politicians loyal to National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu, under the aegis of South-West Agenda for 2023 (SWAG4 2023), yesterday, visited the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, to seek royal blessings and support for the 2023 presidency. The visit was ahead of Tuesday’s launch of SWAG4 2023 at Mauve 21, Ibadan. Those in attendance during the visit were the Chairman, Planning Committee of the group, Senator Dayo Adeyeye; Senator Adesoji Akanbi, representing Oyo South Senatorial District; former House of Representatives member, Otunba Abayomi Ogunnusi; former Commissioner for Information in Oyo State, Bosun Oladele, among others. Adeyeye said the agenda of the group was to call out well-meaning south-westerners to encourage, market and support the candidature of Tinubu for the office of the President of Nigeria in 2023 to push the Yoruba agenda for leadership of Nigeria. The Olubadan, in his response, expressed joy and prayed for the success of the initiative. He said: “As we know, there is freedom of movement, expression and association in the country. There is nothing wrong in making attempts and giving presidency a shot. We recall your efforts since the period of Afenifere to the time of June 12, 1993. As the father of all, I am receptive to all political parties in the land.” The Alaafin of Oyo, who lamented that the country had been unfortunate, said: “In Yorubaland, covenant is very important. We believe that with law of retributive justice, if you break covenant, the repercussion is great. You may think it (race for 2023) is too early, but it is never too early to start. “If you want to have a country that is forward-moving, there must be federal system of government. There is no sincerity in the politics of Nigeria. Things have not changed in this country. There is insincerity. We need to have a president who can listen. “We have not been fortunate to have the kind of president that we deserve.” We are the first to build skyscraper, cocoa industry; we had always been ahead. Money was used for the purpose for which it was meant. So, we were prepared and developing. If education during the time of Chief Obafemi Awolowo was on concurrent list, there would not have been free education in the South-West.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .