 The Kaduna Marathon featured runners from across the world  It would have been difficult for the indigenes to win such prizes in the 21-kilometre half marathon because of the stiff opposition from foreign athletes.
 
Commissioner for Sports, Professor Kabir Mato, could not contain his excitement as he praised both the athletes and organisers of the race. On his part, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication, Muyiwa Adekeye, disclosed that the first edition of the Kaduna Marathon succeeded in advancing the goals of promoting sports, encouraging social interaction and showing the best of Kaduna.
 
“The Kaduna State government wishes to express its gratitude to everyone that has helped to make a success of the first edition of the Kaduna Marathon. The elite runners from several African countries brought high standards of long-distance running, while Nigerian citizens, residents and visitors alike to Kaduna, participated with enthusiasm. 
 
“KDSG commends all the runners, the sponsors, the media and government agencies that collaborated to make the Kaduna Marathon a success at the first attempt. We congratulate the winners and acknowledge other participants for making it a joyful sporting and social event. The state government salutes Kaduna residents for the warm welcome they gave to our guests. Government acknowledges residents for bearing the inconveniences caused by the road closures for some hours on race day. 
 
“The main 21km race, the 5km and 10km races have helped advance the goals set for the Kaduna Marathon, which is designed as an annual sporting event to create options for talent development, drawing mass participation, inviting visitors to the state and creating economic benefits,” he said. 
 
According to Adekeye, the Kaduna Marathon represents a further initiative in reviving sports in Kaduna State. In 2019, he said, “Malam Nasir El-Rufai anchored this responsibility in a new Ministry of Sports Development. The government will continue to support sports and work to stage many more sports programmes in the near future.”  Meanwhile, the Managing Director of Nilayo Sports Management Limited and consultant to the Kaduna Marathon, Bukola Olopade, has described that event as a huge success.
 
“I am really excited by the success story of the Kaduna marathon, considering that it was the maiden edition. I am sure that Kaduna marathon will become a label race soon.”
   
Also thrilled by the success of the event is former national record holder in marathon, Abbas Mohammed, who led some local athletes to challenge their foreign counterparts at Kaduna marathon.
 
Mohammed, whose national record of 2:16:06 seconds set in September 1990 at a full marathon race in Lagos, has remained unbroken for over three decades, said the Kaduna marathon came at the right time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .