Kaduna State Government may slam another lockdown on the state for failure of residents to observe coronavirus disease (COVID-19) protocols. The state government, yesterday, announced measures to help stem rising COVID-19 cases through voluntary mass compliance, which includes the prohibition of mass gathering. It believes that mass compliance with COVID-19 prevention protocols will help reduce the rate of infections. Special Adviser, Media and Communication, to the Governor, Muyiwa Adekeye, stated that amid the reality of a second wave of COVID-19, the state was seeking to prioritise public safety while preserving the ability of citizens to safely pursue their livelihoods. He urged residents of Kaduna to take personal responsibility and abide by simple prevention measures. “The state government calls on the residents to observe physical distancing, maintain proper respiratory hygiene and avoid large gatherings,” he said. While calling on the residents to wear facemasks always, Adekeye advised them to wash their hands with soap under running tap and use hand sanitisers. His words: “Transporters, market unions and religious leaders made commitments for continued compliance with COVID-19 protocols prior to the easing of the first lockdown in June 2020. The state government is counting on the cooperation of our citizens in a collective effort to stop COVID-19. “Civil servants below Grade Level 14 are to work from home from Monday, December 21, 2020, subject to directives by their supervisors who may require their presence in the office.” According to him, the state government’s task force and other agencies will help enforce the regulations. ““Ultimately, the effectiveness of these measures depends on the exercise of personal responsibility and voluntary compliance with the protocols. “The government appeals to all residents to see COVID-19 prevention as a vital personal responsibility and to act accordingly,” Adekeye pleaded.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .