President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday met with the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, and agreed to honour a summon by the parliament to brief members on what his administration is doing to address the deteriorating insecurity and other challenges facing the country. Gbajabiamila, who spoke to newsmen after he met with the President, however, did not disclose the date both leaders agreed for the briefing. The lawmakers, who were distribed by the worsening insecurity in the country, on Tuesday summoned President Buhari over the murder of about 43 persons by suspected Boko Haram terrorists in Zabarmari village, Jere Council of Borno State. Adopting a motion under matters of urgent national importance at the plenary presided over by Gbajabiamila, the lawmakers insisted that President Buhari be made to brief them on the true state of the security of the nation. They did not specify when the President should appear before them, they condemned the killing of the deceased who were rice farmers on Saturday last week. Gbajabiamila said he was in the Presidential Villa, Abuja, to convey the resolution of the House and to fix a convenient date which the parliament left open out of respect for the President because of his tight schedules. “We have agreed on a date and he will meet with the House to address the situation. We have fixed a date but we will communicate with you. President Buhari is a perfect democrat, he will come to the House to address members in the nearest future,” the speaker said. On what he made of Buhari’s disposition over the House’s summon, Gbajabiamila said the President’s body language showed an equally concerned leader. “I think he is more concerned than me and you. Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown. We will leave everything until when he comes to the House. Let me not pre-empt him. All I can tell you for now is that he is fully committed to the security of lives and property of Nigerians.” “He is coming to talk to Nigerians through the House. You know that in the House, as is constituted, every Nigerian is present there. Every constituency in this country is represented in the House. So, when Mr. President is talking to the House, he is talking to Nigerians through their representatives,” Gbajabiamila added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .