 Nigeria Governors Forum PHOTO:Twitter  The NGF stated this yesterday when its delegation visited Katsina State in solidarity with Governor Aminu Masari over the abduction and subsequent release of 344 students of Government Science Secondary School (GSSS), Kankara, a few days ago. On the night of Friday, December 11, gunmen had stormed the all-male school, shot a policeman, and abducted hundreds of the students. The students were however released six days later in a forest in neighbouring Zamfara State, following negotiations between the gunmen and representatives of the state government. The delegation was led by NGF chairman, Dr. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, who was accompanied by Governors Abubakar Bagudu (Jigawa State), Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto), and Muhammadu Abubakar (Kebbi). The four governors, who went into a closed-door meeting shortly after arriving in the state through the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua International Airport, addressed reporters immediately after the meeting. Speaking on behalf of the forum, Fayemi said they were in the state in solidarity with the 344 students who were abducted and released by gunmen in Kankara Council. He, however, expressed the forum’s concern over growing insecurity in the country, which he said had become almost a daily occurrence. The 35 state governors, he added, would work with Federal Government and security agencies to ensure a speedy end to banditry and related criminality in the country. “It’s a delegation of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. We’ve been sent by our colleagues to pay a solitary visit to our elder brother, Governor of Katsina State, Aminu Masari. “We are, of course, understandably concerned by developments in the state, but we thank Allah that all the kids that were abducted from Kankara had been reunited without any mishap,” he stated. He added that the governors were still very concerned about the security situation in the North West and the entire country. “This is almost a daily occurrence and the governor is spending the resources, both material and human, on this priority issue which pervades the whole of our country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .