4 Ways To Manage Sexual Needs In Long Distance Relationship Being in a long-distance relationship does not mean having a boring sex life. It could be a bit difficult speaking to your partner about this, however, this is why friendship is a necessity in any relationship. Speak to your partner about your sexual needs and how you want to introduce virtual sex in your relationship. Truth be told, it is definitely a task to keep the passion strong. If you’ve been missing the intimate time with your partner but are separated by distance, you need to consider virtual sex. Below are some ways you can manage sexual needs in a long-distance relationship: Communicate boundaries
If you are a virtual sex virgin, setting the boundaries is essential. Not doing so right in the beginning can give way to the development of awkwardness between you and your partner. So, make sure you’re communicating with each other about what you’re comfortable with and what you’d like to avoid. Choose the platform and medium
You have plenty of options available to choose from in this day and age. Make sure you are doing your research on which platform is safe. When it comes to choosing the medium, you need to understand that texting, phone calls, and video calls have their own set of pros and cons. Some people are uncomfortable with video calls while some people don’t find sexting too satisfying. Set the mood
Once you are comfortable and have discussed how you want to go about it, you need to set the mood. Creating the right vibe can make or break this experience. So, wear good lingerie and switch on some fairy lights for a sensuous feel through the screen. Understand your partner
It is not just about you, try to understand your partner’s needs and their responses. Are they comfortable with your discussions, are they just doing it for you, or they are really into it? Ensure you continually ask them if they are as comfortable as you, so your desires do not come out selfish. Always ensure you communicate your needs and wants with your partner so as to cover up for the distance especially at this period.