Spokesman of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), Frank Mba, and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Operations, Lagos State Command, Mohammed Ali, were among the officers elevated to the rank of Commissioner of Police by the Police Service Commission (PSC).
 
PSC spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani, made the disclosure yesterday after its 10th Plenary Meeting.
 
Four Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) and one Commissioner of Police were promoted to the substantive rank of Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs). The new DIGs, who are expected to represent their geo-political zones in the Police management team, are AIG Usman Alkali Baba, currently acting DIG, Administration; AIG Dan Mallam Mohammed, AIG in charge of Zone 13 in Ukpo, Anambra State; AIG David Oyebanji Folawiyo, AIG in charge of Zone 17, Akure, Ondo State and CP Joseph Egbunike, CP in charge of Budget. The 13 newly promoted AIGs are Agunbiade Lasore, Uche Anozie, Kenneth Ebrimson, Undie J. Adie, Olugbenga Adeyanju, Johnson B. Kokumo, Ajani O. Babatunde, Olukolu Tairu Shina, Awunah N. Donald, Hafiz Inuwa, Garba Baba Umar, Omololu Bishi, and Isaac O. Akinmoyede. Twenty-three Deputy Commissioners of Police (DCPs) promoted to the next rank of Commissioners of Police include Godwin Akor Job, Abimbola Adebola Shokoya, Christopher Owolabi, Olubunmi Osoka, Attahiru Isa, Yekini Adio Ayoku, Olufu Tony Adejoh, Mamman Sanda Umar, Aliyu Adamu and Haladu Musa Ros-Amson, among others. Some of the 29 ACPs promoted to DCPs are Emmanuel Ola Toluse; Simeon Udofia Akpanudom; Osagie John Agans-Irabo; Adedamola Ayilara; Michael Okoh; Hycenth Azuka Edozie and Betty Enekpen Otimenyin. CSPs Olusegun Akanbi; Stanley Egbo; Doughye Blessing; Timothy Olaolu; Emmanuel Anene Ogbuanya, Linus Ogbodo and Samuel Awopetu were some of the 91 promoted to Assistant Commissioners of Police (ACP). The Commission also promoted 599 Superintendents of Police to the next rank of Chief Superintendents of Police, as well as 21 officers who lost their lives during the EndSARS protests across the country and another 121 injured during the same crisis. PSC Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a former Inspector General of Police (IGP), who presided over the meeting, enjoined the beneficiaries to rededicate themselves to the service of their fatherland, promising that the Commission would continue to ensure that promotion of deserving officers are prompt and merit-driven. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .