 Real Madrid’s French defender Ferland Mendy (2nd-L) is challenged by Shakhtar Donetsk’s Brazilian forward Tete and Shakhtar Donetsk’s Brazilian midfielder Dodo during the UEFA Champions League Group B football match between Shakhtar Donetsk and Real Madrid at the Olimpiyskiy stadium in Kiev on December 1, 2020. (Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY / AFP)  Substitutes Dentinho and Manor Solomon both scored second-half goals as Shakhtar stunned the 13-time European champions again, having already won 3-2 in Madrid in October. Shakhtar had lost their last two Group B matches against Borussia Moenchengladbach by an aggregate score of 10-0, but this victory allowed them to move above Real into second place in the group with one game remaining. Gladbach tops the section, while Shakhtar now has the upper hand on Real thanks to their superior head-to-head record, while this result also means Inter Milan retain an outside chance of qualifying before their game later. Shakhtar Donetsk’s Ukrainian goalkeeper Anatolii Trubin (R) reacts during the UEFA Champions League Group B football match between Shakhtar Donetsk and Real Madrid at the Olimpiyskiy stadium in Kiev on December 1, 2020. (Photo by Sergei SUPINSKY / AFP)  Zinedine Zidane’s team were returning to the scene of their victory over Liverpool in 2018 final, but they looked a shadow of their former selves in the snow in Kiev’s Olympic Stadium, and the result further underlined how much they miss defensive talisman Sergio Ramos when he is not there. This was Real’s seventh defeat in the last nine Champions League matches they have played without Ramos, who is currently injured. Perhaps this game would have turned out differently had Marco Asensio scored in the fifth minute rather than turn Karim Benzema’s cross onto the post, but they went on to slump to a third defeat in their last five matches in all competitions. Dentinho had replaced the injured Junior Moraes in the first half and the Brazilian got the opening goal just before the hour mark. Ferland Mendy intercepted a Viktor Kovalenko ball into the box but only succeeded in laying it on a plate for Dentinho to tuck past Thibaut Courtois and in. The Ukrainian champions then made sure of their victory on the counter-attack with eight minutes remaining as Israeli international Solomon picked up the ball on halfway and advanced unchallenged before picking his spot.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .