Urges FG, MURIC, others to apologise 
Nigeria Citizens Action Groups (NCAG), a coalition of civil society organisations, youth and student bodies, has described the attack on Bishop Matthew Kukah’s Christmas message by the Federal Government and some groups as very unfortunate, unpatriotic and hypocritical. The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), Muslim Rights Concern and some other groups had aligned with the Federal Government in attacking the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese over his essay on December 25, 2020. In a statement yesterday, NCAG demanded apology from the government and the groups involved in the attacks for their “unpatriotic” act. The statement jointly signed by the Chairman of NCAG/President of Northern Youth Council of Nigeria, Salahudeen Lukman; and Spokesman of NCAG/President, Coalition of North Central Groups Isah Abubakar, the coalition stated: “Sane Nigerians won’t take any agent of doom serious for their usual eye service and an attack on a prominent bishop of peace. “We are forced to ask the whereabouts these elements and groups prior to 2015 when Bishop Kukah and General Abdulsalami Abubakar led a National Peace Committee that perfected the coming to power of General Muhammadu Buhari as opposition candidate.” It added that the APC government retained the peace committee after the 2019 general election to plead with the opposition party to accept the election result despite the obvious hitches recorded. NCAG stated: “It remain disastrous, unethical, unpresidential that a government that sponsored agents of government like the Minister of information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; the spokesperson of CNG, Abdul-Azeez Sulaiman; and Prof. Ishaq Akintola of MURIC could not evaluate the content of Kukah’s Christmas message, but twisted it as a call for violent change of government otherwise known as coup. “Truth be told, President Buhari is only Nigerian and he will remain the only and last citizen of Federal Republic of Nigeria that will ever rule Nigeria this manner. If not for his level of integrity before ascending power, his administration’s nepotistic appointments and uncoordinated security architect would have put the country into deep crisis that may end our nationhood.” It cited the kidnap and killing of traditional and religion leaders, the assassination of retired and serving army officers, and kidnap of pupils in their hundreds as a mark of failed government. The group warned that “any attempt to criminalise, arrest or silent Kukah, who remains the voice of the voiceless Nigerians, shall meet stiff resistance.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .