Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun (right); United States (U.S.) Deputy Chief of Mission, Kathleen Fitzgibbon and the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, during a courtesy visit to the Governor’s Office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta… yesterday. Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has said that the present administration in the state will intensify efforts towards reducing the spread of Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) in the state. Abiodun stated this when he played host to the United States (U.S.) Deputy Chief of Mission, Kathleen Fitzgibbon, in his office on the occasion of the HIV Treatment Surge Light campaign in Abeokuta. The Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) Surge Light campaign was conceptualised by U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) to put about 20,200 people living with HIV (PLHIV) on life-saving anti-retroviral therapy by September 30, 2021 in Ogun State. He acknowledged that the initiative was to close the existing gaps, promising that the state government will continue to work towards ensuring that more people are saved from the clutches of HIV/AIDS) through sensitisation, advocacy and other preventive measures. The governor also said that the present administration would ensure elimination of ART-associated user fees in all health institutions, adding that the move will help all HIV positive clients have access to free anti-retroviral treatment provided by PEPFAR. Abiodun said that the state government had expanded treatment for preventing mother-to-child transmission, just as it has increased enlightenment on the use of condoms, and introduced affordable methods for preventing infection in high-risk populations. Speaking earlier, the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, said the launch of the ART Surge light would further build on the state’s achievements by ensuring that key and targeted population are reached, ensuring that the test and treat policy, which has been proven to save many lives, is also implemented. In her remark, Fitzgibbon, assured that an HIV free generation is possible, noting that the efforts of the Ogun State government in achieving the viral load suppression of 87 per cent people living with HIV is commendable.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .