Anambra State Governor, Willie Obiano, has replaced the President-General (PG) of Awka Development Union Nigeria (ADUN), Tony Okechukwwu, with a former Deputy President-General, Kanayo Nwogbo to douse tension created by the union’s leadership crisis. Nwogbo was sworn-in alongside Onyebuchi Nwobu (Deputy PG), Alex Nwachukwu (Secretary-General), Okey Anakor (Assistant Secretary-General), Arinze Chijioke (Treasurer), Sunday Nweke (Financial Secretary), Vincent Nwafor (Provost), Vin Okafor (Director of Socials) and Oyeoka E. Emeka (PRO). Nwogbo’s emergence ended Okechukwu’s eight-year tenure, which expired since March 17, 2015, but was extended for an acting capacity due to the 2015 general elections. Although Okechukwu’s tenure continue beyond expectation amid opposition, it was believed that Governor Obiano aimed at dousing tension with the approval of election that produced Nwogbo as the new PG for the next three years effective November 21, 2020. Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, Greg Obi, confirmed the approval in a letter conveying the state government’s recognition was copied to the Awka South council Transition Committee Chairman, traditional ruler of Awka, Obi Gibson Nwosu, Director of SSS, Secretary, Joint State/Local Government Account Committee and Anambra State Association of Town Unions (ASATU). Speaking while inaugurating the Nwogbo-led union, Obi charged the new executive to facilitate programmes that would enthrone peaceful co-existence of members and peaceful resolution of conflicts in the community. Obi, who was represented by Henry Nwasike, mandated the new leadership of ADUN to respect the traditional ruler and synergise with traditional institution for the development of the community. He also cautioned the new leadership to avoid dealing on communal lands that would cause crises in the community, maintain peace, law and order at all times in the performance of their duties. Speaking, Nwogbo pledged to unite the groups in the community for peace and progress, adding that he would carry everyone along in his administration. Nwogbo said he would consolidate on consulting stakeholders in the community and government, stressing that he would focus on providing an enabling environment for the development of Awka. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .