Representative of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District, Christopher Ekpenyong, has described the All Progressives Congress’ (APC) claim that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was incapable of managing its internal affairs as propaganda ahead of the 2023 general elections. Ekpenyong, a former Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, stated this yesterday in Uyo while reacting to APC’s assertion that the defections of PDP members to the party was due to its ineffectiveness in managing its affairs and urged Nigerians to ignore APC’s propaganda against the PDP. He said he was not surprised that APC that carried the propaganda in 2015 that all PDP leaders were corrupt was now celebrating the same people who had joined the party. He stressed that their propaganda would fail because majority of Nigerians are not happy with their leadership style, adding: “It is no news that the APC government is a failure. Nigerians are yet to see what the APC government has done and the clock is ticking.” In 2015 they promised change, but five years after they have done nothing. “The party has started its propaganda against the PDP because its leaders and members know that they have failed Nigerians. They think they can deceive Nigerians again with their propaganda like they did before and during the 2015 elections. “Nigerians have understood what good governance is all about and that is what the APC-led government has failed to provide, the government is a failure. And I advise Nigerians to ignore those saying that PDP is a dying party, because that is a mere propaganda against the PDP. The PDP is getting stronger ahead of 2023.” Ekpenyong, however, urged the government to concentrate on finding solutions to the escalating insecurity and recession in the country, stressing that the APC had failed to fulfill any of its promises. “They told us that insecurity will end over night if voted into power in 2015, but today insecurity has engulfed the entire country. Today, killings by Boko Haram insurgents, kidnapping and killings by bandits or Fulani herdsmen have become the order of the day and the situation has become really worrisome,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .