NASFAT Zone II Zonal Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Mulikat Oriloye (left), NASFAT Women Affairs Secretary, Alhaja Suwebat Kupolati; 2020 NASFAT Coordinator 1, Alhaja Omolara Bankole, at the graduation ceremony in Lagos. • Empowers youths with entrepreneurship skills
The Nasiru llahi-l-Fathi Society of Nigeria (NASFAT) has enjoined the Muslim elites to take up the duty of religious propagation. The society made this call during the Webinar symposium to celebrate the 70th birthday of its pioneer president, who is now the Chairman, Board of Trustee, Alhaji Abdullateef Wale Olasupo. The Guest Speaker at the event, former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Abdulhakeem Abdullateef said: “Islamic propagation is not meant for the Alfas and Imams alone, but for everyone who intends to succeed.” He called on Muslim elites to use thier wisdom, riches, power, and intelligence to call people to the way of Allah. “No matter your position in the society, let them know that you are a Muslim and you are a preacher,” he said. He said it is Allah who gave the power, intelligence, the riches and others, hence the need to use the position, wealth and connections to invite people to the path of Allah. Abdullateef said: “You should command what is good and forbid what is bad. The best user of his tongue is he who uses it to invite people to the right path.” He enjoined the religious institutions and mosques to do more in dawah and explore the modern tools and mechanism in propagating Islam. Challenging the role models to also engage in religious propagation as they gain better attention of the populace, Abdullateef said the preachers should always practice what they preach. The Chief Missioner, NASFAT, Abdul Azeez Onike, described Olasupo as a paragon of humility, perseverance and contentment. Onike observed special prayer for the celebrant and applauded his contributions to the growth of NASFAT. The Deputy Governor, Ogun State, Alhaja Noimot Salako-Oyedele lauded NASFAT for the initiative, urging them to further strengthen their horizon. Second Guest Speaker, Dean Faculty of Arts, University of Ibadan, Prof Afis Oladosu, stressed the need to celebrate the personalities who have contributed immensely to the development of Islam in Nigeria. He also emphasised the need to incorporate the young generation in the religious propagation agenda. According to him, the young generation should be encouraged to read and realise that they have to give what they have in order to receive more from Allah. Oladosu said Islam do not support forceful conversion, brutality and destruction of properties. He said Islam is attestation that Allah is one and cannot be duplicated: observing five daily solar; doing good and forbidding evil, among others. Registrar, Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Ishaq Oloyede, expressed his happiness in celebrating the pleasure of Allah in the celebrant and enjoined more Muslim personalities to contribute immensely to Islam. The Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Yusuf Ali challenged NASFAT on reorientation of Muslim leaders who are in position of authority. He stressed the need for standard moral uprightness as a requisite for flying the banner of Islam up high. Meanwhile, the group has also empowered about 1,000 Muslim men and women across the country with entrepreneurial skills to enable them have financial liberation. The National Women Affairs Secretary, NASFAT, Alhaja Bola Suwebat Kupolati, at the National Women’s week empowerment programme graduation ceremony held in Lagos, said the Islamic organisation is passionate about empowerment to enable Muslims gain financial stability. She said the graduation was part of the NASFAT Women Week, which involves several other programmes including disbursement of palliatives, fasting by all women with prayers for the nation, and virtual lectures on balancing career and family, among others. She said: “Empowerment is one of the many things that NASFAT is keen about. We need to empower our women. We need to engage our women. We need to continue to look at what we can do to enable us sustain our family,” she said. Kupolati urged women to learn more trade and support their husbands in creating a wealthy family. The National Empowerment Secretary, Alhaji Ibrahim Olasunkanmi said empowerment is pivotal to living a better life. Noting that the programme was in line with the four cardinal points of NASFAT which is tagged: HELD, meaning Health Education, Livelihood, Dawah, he said empowerment creates better livelihood for the people. He said the beneficiaries are also well equipped with digital marketing skills, to be able to showcase thier products online. He enjoined the beneficiaries to engage in further training on their areas of specialisation and diversify their source of income. He said more training are going to be done by NASFAT to ensure that the people are financially liberated. Chairman of the occasion, Alhaji Olubodun Yusuf, said the skill acquisition programme would go a long way to impact on the wellbeing of Muslims. He said: “Being empowered means you are getting freedom from poverty, so you must be determined and dedicated to be progressive in your commercial endeavours. The Guest Lecturer, Alhaji Muftaudeen Abiodun Oyenekan, who spoke on “finding financial freedom and stability post COVID-19” said the skills acquired should be optimally utilised for a sustainable business entity. He enjoined the young entrepreneurs to get superior knowledge of the business requirements and be determined to be successful amid stiff competition. He urged the graduands to define their business approach and pursue it vigorously.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .