•Average traffic per smartphone in SSA to reach 8.9GB
•Region’s mobile broadband subscriptions to account for 76% of mobile subscriptions by 2025 Mobile data traffic in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is estimated to grow by almost 6.5 times the current figures, with total traffic increasing from 0.87EB per month in 2020 to 5.6EB by 2026. This is even as the average traffic per smartphone is expected to reach 8.9GB over the forecast period.  Over the forecast period, mobile broadband subscriptions in SSA are predicted to increase, reaching 76 percent of mobile subscriptions. Driving factors behind the growth of mobile broadband subscriptions include a young, growing population with increasing digital skills and more affordable smartphones. Over the forecast period, distinct volumes of 5G subscriptions are expected from 2022, reaching 5 per cent in 2026.
   
While 5G and LTE subscriptions will continue to grow over the next six years, High-Speed Packet Access (HSPA) will remain the dominant technology in SSA with a share of over 40 percent in 2026.  Part of the findings is that the offering-led strategy is mostly deployed by challengers. The ambition, according to it, is to be first to market with new offerings. Prominent in this strategy is maintaining a high level of market innovation to capture market share, often with one-for-all offerings, coupled with the targeted distribution. These challengers use extensive campaigns and promotional programs to gain traction and capitalize on their “first-mover advantage”.  Second, FWA delivered over 4G or 5G is an increasingly cost-efficient broadband alternative in areas with limited availability of fixed services, such as DSL, cable, and fiber. Increasing capacity, allowed by greater spectrum allocations and technology advancements for 4G and 5G networks, is driving higher network efficiency in terms of the cost per delivered gigabyte. Third, nations are fueling broadband connectivity through programs and subsidies, as it is considered vital for digitization efforts and economic growth. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .