Chairman of the Akwa Ibom Boxing Association, Daniel Udoh, has called on coaches and other stakeholders to take advantage of many untapped talents in different sports to build athletes that would represent the state in both national and international competitions. Speaking with the executive members of the state’s chapter of Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN), who paid him courtesy call in his office in Uyo, yesterday, Udoh commended the association for helping to ensure the state government’s effort in setting up sports associations was not in vain. Udoh also thanked the state government for its sports developing efforts, adding that attention should also be given to such other sports as boxing. Arguing that boxing is capable of fetching medals for the state, Udoh made reference to former heavyweight champion, Samuel Peter, whose world title victory brought fame to Akwa Ibom in particular and Nigeria at large. He described boxing as an expensive sport, noting that, through boxing, he has travelled to about seven countries. Udoh called for the transformation of the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium into a sports city to accommodate other sports, stressing that such would help Akwa Ibom to secure hosting rights to the National Sports Festival in the future. According to him, such investment would, in turn, boost tourism in the state and create employment for the people. Earlier, the state SWAN chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Akpan, told the boxing boss that the visit was in continuation of their tour to the 30 sports associations in the state. “The executive of SWAN is in your office for appraisal and evaluation to ascertain the achievements of the boxing association since its inauguration by the state government”. He said the visit was an ongoing exercise to ensure that the different sports associations operate according to their assigned mandates and pledged for a rewarding partnership. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .