The Joint Action Committee of Northern Youths (JACOM) has called on government to secure release of Chibok and Dapchi girls in Boko Haram’s captivity the way they did for Kankara schoolboys in Katsina State who were recently abducted by bandits. While applauding the government for the efforts put in place to ensure that the Kankara boys regain their freedom, Convener of JACOM, Murtala Abubakar, noted that the Chibok girls have spent 2,600 days in captivity, hence the need to adopt similar strategies used on the bandits in Katsina to free the girls. The group, in a statement, urged the northern states governors to put aside their political differences and unite to fight insecurity, using the synergy between Zamfara and Katsina states governors, Muhammad Mattawalle and Aminu Masari, to rescue the kidnapped boys as an example. “If there is a political will on the part of political office holders, synergy among the security agents and involvement of the civil populace, there is no security challenge that cannot be overcome, and with speed. “With the Kankara scenario, with the speed and strategy used to ensure the rescue of hundreds of boys, we demand the government does the same to rescue the remaining Chibok girls who have spent over 2, 400 days in captivity. The same thing should happen to Leah Sharibu who is the lone victim with the abductors of the Dapchi girls and all other Nigerian citizens in captivity. “For the rescue of the Kankara students to have been that swift and successful when most of the senior security chiefs were in self-isolation, following the breakout of COVID-19 during the Chief of Army Staff Annual Conference, lends credence to the demand for the relieving of the service chiefs of their appointment. We urge President Buhari to hearken to this demand.” According to the northern youths, “Security issues go beyond political differences and personal interest. Political office holders must live up to the oath of office they swore to with regard to protection of life and property. Anything short of that is a failure,” Abubakar stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .