 Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola  Of the amount, N117, 485, 081, 325 billion is for construction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges in across the federation.  Briefing State House correspondents at the end of the meeting in Abuja, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said the money would facilitate rehabilitation of the 26-kilometre Kano-Kazaure-Daura, Mai’adua road in Kano-Jigawa-Katsina states cost at N8.767 billion. Omor-Umulokpa road in Anambra and Enugu is gulping N1.712 billion. He said the amount would also cover other rehabilitation and construction works in other parts of the country. Fashiola said FEC equally approved the procurement of a core banking application software for the use of the Federal Mortgage Bank in the sum of N487.394, 285.71 million by Messers FINTAX. He explained that the application is to enable institution provide frontline services that other banks now provide across its branches nationwide. Unlike other financial institutions, Fashola said the bank is still unable to send automated notices, statements and other services to national housing fund contributors. The meeting also okayed N768, 077.08 for vehicles for newly promoted officers of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). It further awarded a N2.1 billion contract to Julius Berger for the furnishing of the NIS Technology Building, which houses the service’s Data Communication Command and Control Centre. Also briefing newsmen under the coordination of the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said the 44 operational vehicles are to enhance efficiency of the officers, including Comptrollers, Assistant Comptrollers General, Deputy Comptrollers Generals as well as for patrol duties. Aregbesola who was joined by the Minister of Special Duties, George Akume as well as Minister of State for Science and Technology, Mohammed Abdullahi, disclosed that FEC named Messrs PAN, Kaura and Wanla Motors Nigeria Ltd as beneficiaries of the contract. He said council also approved a contract for the furnishing of the technology building at the sum of N2, 100,080,759.65. Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu recalled that council had okayed the reversal of the total cost of the main project and got approval to extend the services of the consultant, Messrs Tech Consult Consultancy International and Associates Ltd, for another 12 months. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .