Madonna Science Secondary School Etiti have won the maiden Jayden Robinson Youth Foundation (JRYF) Secondary School Football Competition, beating Abueke Community Secondary School, also of Imo State, by a lone goal. Madonna scored just two goals throughout the competition and conceded none. Both goals coming in the semi-final and final stages were enough to get the job done and win the inaugural trophy. After three match days, 11 goals were recorded in 11 matches and some talents that could become household names in future were produced. The finalists filed out to cheers from their fans and supporters in their brand-new colourful OWU jerseys provided by the organisers. With their morale boosted and sight on winning the trophy and mouthwatering prize money, the finale didn’t disappoint. The JRYF Footy Competition was organised for secondary schools under Okigwe Zone 2 in Ihitte/Uboma, Imo State, and featured eight schools. Through this grassroots project, the organisers said they were out to promote sports among kids for their well being, provide sporting opportunities for them, educate them on the benefits of actively participating in sport and to catch them young for advanced opportunities. An excited Jayden Robinson, founder of Jayden Robinson Youth Foundation, said: “From the onset, I told my project team our objectives are to give these youngsters a good, standard opportunity, and teach them that actively participating in sports is beneficial to them health and wealth-wise. These we have achieved with the competition. And that’s a win for us. “So, I’m very elated at the successful end of the event. All that we promised, we delivered. I’ll like to give my gratitude to my team for doing a good job. “Throughout the competition, we identified some talents that need further platforms to grow and excel. And as an aftermath of the success we have recorded with this competition, we will invite these shinning stars to be part of the Jayden Robinson Sports Academy (football), even as we work to get trials abroad for the very best of them. We have them and we will unveil them at the right time.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .