Nigerian Government has distanced President Muhammadu Buhari from an alleged transfer of funds from the account of the Ogun State government during Ibikunle Amosun’s tenure as governor. The government also dispelled claims in a media report that a certain PMB Estate allegedly owned by Buhari was built with the illegally transferred funds to the Nigerian president. “The President Muhammadu Buhari (PMB) Estate is a large housing scheme in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. It was commissioned by President Buhari in the course of a State visit,” presidential spokesman Garba Shehu said in a statement. “PMB Estate is owned by the Ogun State government, which honoured the President by naming it after him of cause that does not confer the ownership of the Estate to President Buhari.” An online newspaper earlier this week published a report with ‘proofs’ on how Buhari allegedly received funds from Ogun State Government. “Mr Buhari’s rise to Nigerian presidency in May 2015 introduced instant fortunes into his immediate family: a fleet of luxury aircraft, a row of fortified palatial mansions, luxury cars, helicopters, presidential dining, evolving wardrobe, a monthly income that runs into millions. The benefits are almost endless — all on the Nigerian taxpayers,” the report said. It claimed that Amosun, a serving senator who was Ogun State governor between 2011 and 2019, transferred N12.5 million of Ogun taxpayers’ funds to Buhari’s personal bank account. Shehu, however, was silent on why the former Ogun State governor allegedly sent the funds from the state government coffers to the president. The report stated that a September 8, 2016 transaction was authorised from Ogun State Government Expenditure Account, which their findings revealed was directly under Amosun’s control. While Amosun is yet to react to the allegation, the presidency said the report is a “Fake news industry at work.” Shehu said the online newspaper is peddling falsehood about “Muhammadu Buhari, the tried and tested anti-corruption fighter is the beneficiary of this cash transfer should be ignored.” “Before his election as civilian President, Muhammadu Buhari was a military pensioner and had never registered a company in his name or that of a proxy.” Shehu stated that the PMB Estate has “absolutely nothing to do with President Muhammadu Buhari.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .