Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, has reaffirmed his commitment to sports development with particular interest in the sustenance of the Kwara Open Golf Tournament, a flagship event in the state. Speaking during the closing ceremony and prize giving dinner of the sixth Kwara Open Tournament at the Ilorin Golf Club last weekend, the governor, represented by Princess Bukola Babalola said, “The Kwara Open is a major event and holds a lot potential for tourism, economy and talents development to say the least for the state. The governor explained that he has a programme for a rounded development of the state, adding that the Kwara Open offers such platform, which needs to be sustained as an annual event. At the one-day event, scratch player, Sola Ologun, returned a brilliant 68 gross to emerge the overall winner. He beat Kadiri Aminu and Azeez Adebayo, who made 73 and 74 gross score, to second and third places respectively. The net winner in the Handicap 0-14 was Issa Abdullahi from Hassabari Golf Club Shaki with 68 net. J Eneye of Ekiti Golf Club came second with 69 net, while Stephen Michael of Ilorin Golf Club returned 71 net to place third in the category. Among dignitaries at the dinner/closing ceremony were the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Sports and Youth Development, Mrs. Iyabo Funke Banire, Director of Sports in the Ministry, Alhaji Shehu and the Deputy Director, Alhaji Bako, the Executive Director, Corporate Services in the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service, Alhaji Tunji Balogun and Alhaji Gani Sanni, the Managing Director, Northern Nigeria Investment Limited, Kaduna. In the ladies category, Mrs. Evelyn Balogun, the immediate past lady captain of Ilorin Golf Club, won the overall gross prize at the event. Mrs. Phebian Ayinde, the lady captain of the club, won the best net, while Jumoke Orire was the runner up net In the handicap 15-28, James Gomina won the overall net prize with 71 net, beating the former Chief of Staff to Governor Abdulfatai Ahmed, Alhaji Babatunde Abdulwahab, who also played 71 net to the second position on the count back rule. In the third position was Sharafa Onaolapo with 72 net. Sola Aliyu of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps was fourth with 73 net, beating a former Commissioner for Environment in the State, Otunba Taiwo Joseph, who also played 73 to the fifth position, on the count back rule. Kazeem Ajide, the winner of Harmony Open Golf Championship held in the same club three weeks ago, could not re-enact the form that gave him victory at the Open as he returned 74 net In the Veterans category, Alhaji Tajudeen Oladipo of MicCom Golf Club, Ada returned 75 net to defeat Deacon Sule Ajayi, who played 76 net. Mrs. Phebian Ayinde won the longest drive ladies, while J Eneye won longest drive men. Nearest the pin ladies was won by Mrs. Ayinde, while nearest the pin men went to A Umar from Minna Golf Club.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .