Investing in African Mining Indaba (Mining Indaba) (www.MiningIndaba.com), part of Hyve Group Plc is delighted to announce the first line-up of keynote speakers for Mining Indaba Virtual, which will be held on 2-3 February 2021. Mining Indaba is renowned for offering a high calibre of speakers, and 2021 is no exception.  The organisers are extremely pleased to confirm that His Excellency, Félix Tshisekedi, President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has confirmed his participation at the online conference.  President Tshisekedi became leader of the DRC in January 2019; it was a landmark moment for the country as the first peaceful and democratic transfer of power. He will be delivering the opening keynote address of Mining Indaba Virtual on 3 February 2021.  “It’s an honour to be able to host His Excellency, President Félix Tshisekedi, at Mining Indaba Virtual. He will be among a group of exceptional speakers we’ll be hosting on the virtual stage, discussing issues affecting the mining sector, including improving bilateral trade and economic relations. It is very exciting for us that the online event is attracting so much interest from both Governments and the private sector,” comments Simon Ford, Portfolio Director, Mining Indaba.  Joining His Excellency on the growing list of speakers are CEOs, government leaders and senior representatives from across the global mining industry. Together they will tackle topics including using mining to reboot national economies, embracing ESG in the boardroom, harnessing the power of automation and the rise of gold during the COVID-19 pandemic.  First line-up of speakers includes: The theme for Mining Indaba Virtual is ‘Resilience & Regrowth: Adopting the New Mindset for African Mining’ to help rebuild and shape the future of the industry. This free to attend online conference features high-level content including pioneering insights, multi-stakeholder strategic conversations, keynote addresses and more.  Registration for the Mining Indaba Virtual has now opened, the event is free to attend.  For more information about the programme, visit the website here (https://bit.ly/3ojDyl8). Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba. Media Contact:
On behalf of Investing in African Mining Indaba
Amy Neville
Email: amy.neville@hyve.group About Investing in African Mining Indaba:
Investing in African Mining Indaba (www.MiningIndaba.com) is solely dedicated to the successful capitalisation, development and widening perspective of the African mining industry. Bringing together the world’s industry giants to tomorrow’s barrier-breaking disruptors from across the spectrum. It’s the place where multi-million deals are done, and life-long partnerships are discovered. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .