The increasing rate of insecurity in the six South-West states has been blamed on the alleged abdication of responsibilities by their governors. A pan-Yoruba group, the Majeobaje Movement, in a “Save our Souls” letter to Chairman of South-West Governor’s Forum and Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, which was copied to the five other governors, accused the governors of not doing enough to protect live and property of the residents. The group decried the spate of killings, kidnappings, rape and sundry criminal activities ravaging the region under the governors’ watch, with the attendant loss of lives of many illustrious citizens and destruction of their livelihoods. Majeobaje wondered why the much-trumpeted South-West Security Network, code-named Amotekun, was yet to be effectively pressed into the service of protecting the lives and property of the citizens of the region against the high expectations of the citizens. It highlighted several unresolved security breaches in the region, especially in different parts of Oyo, Ekiti, Osun, Ondo, Lagos and Ogun states, which had caused anguish to many families. The group said that little or nothing had been done by the government of these states to mitigate the sufferings of residents in the hands of violent herdsmen, kidnappers, rapists and armed robbers or to bring the band of criminals to justice. The group further stated: “Insecurity in the South-West has now reached a crisis point, partly because the Federal Government refuses to act decisively, and also because our South-West governors are failing to use Amotekun effectively. “Because banditry has overwhelmed the North-West, Fulani herdsmen are fleeing desertification, victims of Boko Haram in the North-East are seeking refuge, and the unemployed from all parts of Nigeria are looking for work, these people are now streaming mostly into our South-West states. “They often do so with a high level of aggression, including bearing of AK47 rifles with which our people are being raped and killed with scant regard to the sanctity of life, our culture or the rule of law.” In the five-point recommendation, the group urged the governors to act decisively in stamping out criminal activities within the region and ensure that citizens sleep with both eyes closed, especially now that the end-of-the-year festivities have peaked. The group  advised “that the six governors should urgently allocate more funds to Amotekun to improve its operations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .