As the Anambra state governorship election approaches, the Soludo Solution for 2021 Governor, has urged the former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo, to join the gubernatorial race. National Patron of the group, Anayo Nneama, stated this yesterday at Nibo Civic Centre, Awka South Council during national solidarity rally and inauguration of its national women leader, Chief Mrs. Nkiruka Nwekike. He said they were committed to the actualisation of Soludo’s governorship project 2021 due to his records in academics and as governor of the apex bank. Nneama said the group wanted Soludo to contest the governorship election because of his track records in different fields of endeavour, particularly in the economic sector. He explained that the event was organised to recognise supporters of the group, pointing out that Soludo would help to reresolve some of the challenges facing Ndigbo in trying to secure loans in the nation’s commercial banks. “Soludo is a shining example of a public servant. As governor of CBN, Soludo initiated several positive reforms in the Nigerian banking sector and the economy. “He did not only curve a niche for himself but also made Nigeria proud to the outside world. We are conviced that if he becomes governor, Soludo will place Anambra State in the global map.” “We are supporting him because he is a gentleman and we are ever ready to follow him to any party of his choice,” Nneama stated. Guest of honour at the event, Chinedu Nwoye, who is also a member, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Soludo Supporters Group, commended the group for their confidence in Soludo, saying their decision to encourage him (Soludo) to join governorship race was a step in the right direction. Nwoye, who represented Soludo at the event, said: “You want him to be at the helm of affairs, because you want a better Anambra. I thank you for your confidence in him and assure that your clamour for him to join the governorship race will be conveyed accordingly. Speaking, Mrs. Nwekike recalled Soludo’s impressive qualities and urged him to accept the call of Anambra people to join the 2021 governorship race. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .