The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has conducted recruitment examination for about 191,000 candidates that applied for jobs in the Nigeria Immigration Service and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Speaking with newsmen during the exercise at JAMB headquarters on Monday in Abuja, the Secretary of the Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and  Immigration Services Board, Yakmut Alhassan Saleh, expressed delight over the seamless conduct of the test by the examination body. He said the collaboration with JAMB for the conduct of the computer-based exam was to ensure transparency and avoid rancour and confusion that trailed a similar exercise a few years ago. Over two million Nigerians had applied for vacancies in the two Agencies under the Ministry of Interior before the applicants were weeded down to 191,000. “We need to go through a transparent method of a recruitment exercise and it has to start from the word go. This is just one component of the exercise, after this, we go into physical and medical as well as psychometric exercise.  We are into partnership with JAMB to ensure that every candidate is given a fair opportunity to prove that he has the merit and requirement that we need.” “All over the country, we have almost 190,000 candidates out of which 113,000 are Civil Defence, and for Immigration, we have 78,000 candidates across 126 centres in Nigeria. The examination is broken into three phases; we have the one for graduates and HND, NCE and OND and the third one for secondary school (leavers). “The batches (for the exam) are in three sessions to four sessions based on the number of candidates per centre. We have 9:00am, 11:00am and 1:00pm.” On the number of vacancies that are expected to be filled by the applicants, Saleh explained that 9,460 jobs are up for grabs by successful candidates, adding that the results from the JAMB recruitment exam are released immediately after the exercise. “The result is immediate but we are going to go into the second phase, immediately we get the results we will shortlist for physical and medical checkups before 15 December (2020) IPP and capturing will commence, and they will now go for six months training for specialisation. “In both organisations we are recruiting 9,460. 5,000 for civil defence and 4,460 for immigration,”  Yakmut said. While commending JAMB for the orderliness witnessed in the conduct of the exam, the Board’s secretary said the recruitment process has been free with no candidates expecting to pay any money. Some of the candidates, who bared their minds on the conduct of the exams, commended JAMB and the board for a hitch-free exercise, adding that no issue of network problem was recorded during the examination.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .