DELASU Provost, Ogbuvbu dies of cardiac arrest 
Worried by the murder of Anti-Cult Volunteer Corps leader, Austyn Emuamaka in Kwale, Delta State, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday, ordered the Commissioner of Police (CP) and other security agencies to arrest and prosecute his killers. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, in Asaba, the governor deplored the gruesome murder of Emu, and described it as barbaric and irresponsible. He charged the security agencies to intensify investigation into the dastardly act, and that they should leave no stone unturned to fish out his assailants and bring them to justice. Okowa said the killing of the anti-cult crusader was an attack against agents of peace and progress in the state, which every good-spirited Delta person should condemn. Also, reacting to the incident, Deputy Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Christopher Ochor Ochor, condemned the killing of Emuamaka, describing it as a sad incident. Ochor, who spoke through his media aide, Emmanuel Enebeli, said it was cruel to kill any human being and should be condemned by all and sundry, saying, life was sacred before God and man. He stated that his work as an anti-cult fighter had over the years brought sanity to many communities in Delta State, as he at various times undertook enlightenment campaigns to many communities and institutions of learning, advocating against cult activities, highlighting its disadvantages. Reacting to the incident, the Ndokwa Release Network (NRN) urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Director-General, State Security Service (SSS), Director-General, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) to arrest Emuamaka’s killers to douse the tension in Kwale. Specifically, the group said the Commissioner of Police, with whom the deceased enjoyed a good working relationship, should urgently set his men against the killers and parade them within the shortest possible time. MEANWHILE, Provost of Anwai Campus of the Delta State Univerity (DELSU), Prof. Edward Ogbuvu, yesterday, reportedly died of cardiac arrest. Public Relations Officer of DELSU, Edward Agbure, who confirmed the incidence, said, Ogbuvbu, who was a professor of Educational Administration, was said to have collapsed and was rushed to the hospital where medical personnel confirmed him dead. Sources at the Abraka campus of the institution, said the university authorities were shocked over the death of Ogbuvbu, describing the passing as “a big loss to the university.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .