Says Lagos State ex-gov towers over others in presidential contest
Former senators, political leaders and loyalists of former Lagos State Governor Bola Ahmed Tinubu, yesterday, stormed Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, to launch a campaign movement, tagged: “The South West Agenda (SWAGA ‘23),” for him ahead of the 2023 presidency contest. The loyalists of Tinubu, who said that they launched the campaign movement in a bid to support his candidature, said that the former governor towered over others who may be interested in the bid. It would be recalled that the loyalists had on Monday visited the palaces of the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji and Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyeml III to seek the support of the monarchs for Tinubu’s candidature. Those present at the launch included Dayo Adeyeye, who is the chairman of the planning committee, Rilwan Adesoji Akanbi, Oyetunji Ojo, Bosun Oladele, Rotimi Makinde, Kafilat Ogbara, Toba Oke, Deji Jakande, Gboyega Okegbemi and immediate past Secretary to Ondo State Government, Ifedayo Abegunde. Others were Suraj Adekunbi, Prof. Abideen Olaiya and politicians from both the southern and northern parts of the country. In a welcome address, Adeyeye pointed out that Tinubu towered above others jostling to occupy the coveted office, saying that Tinubu is the most experienced politician in the country to succeed Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. He maintained that 2023 election was already on the front burner of the national discourse. “We are gathered here today to make our own contributions to the arduous and crucial task of helping to shape the future direction of our beloved country, Nigeria. “For the discerning mind, 2023 election is already on the front-burner of the national discourse. The discussion right now everywhere in the country is about what should and should not happen in 2023. That being the case, it is imperative that we should be part of these national discussion and activities. Also, a former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro, said Tinubu remained the best man for the plum job, having garnered experiences and built men while in the saddle as governor of Lagos State. Akanbi said the Third Republic senator remained the most qualified political leader for the number one office in the land, saying that he possessed the intellectual capacity and good character. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .