 Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB)  Executive Secretary NCDMB, Simbi Wabote, announced this at the demo day held recently in Lagos, where the five startups showcased their homegrown innovative solutions aimed to solve local problems. The startups – AirSynQ, Fuel Intellisense, Gricd Mote, Homefort Energy and Kiakia Gas had earlier received $10,000 grant each from NCDMB and have just completed their three-month incubation programmes, where they had resources and mentors that helped them identify their pilot clients and markets. NOGTECH Hackathon was launched in July 2020 under the sponsorship of NCDMB and 630 promising startups applied, with 15 finalists selected at the end of the screening phase. The 15 groups took part in the three-day Hackathon stage held in September 2020, where the top five teams were selected. The Executive Secretary confirmed that the Board will continue to support the five startups. He reiterated that NCDMB deploys an end-to-end strategy in its projects and will not relent until the innovations are fully deployed and begin to solve societal problems. The NCDMB boss noted that some of the solutions extend beyond the oil and gas sector and that they will impact the health sector, community surveillance and the military in their fight against insurgence. He added: “These are innovative solutions to everyday problems that we face in the country. It is beyond the oil and gas industry.”
On the connection between NOGTECH Hackathon and NCDMB’s mandate, Wabote explained that the initiative promotes research/development and capacity building, which constitute key pillars of NCDMB’s mandate and its 10-year strategic roadmap. He added that the 10 teams that made it to the NOGTECH screening stage would also be accommodated at the Board’s incubation centre located at its headquarters in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. “We just signed our incubation policy and it will enable us to incubate these innovators until they commercialise their products. Youths of Nigerians are innovative and creative. They are looking for a platform they can leverage and NCDMB will be that platform,” he stated. One of the innovations, AirsynQ, seeks to tackle pipeline vandalism by providing real-time aerial intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance information. It uses a balloon satellite to provide long-duration aerial surveillance. Another one, Fuel Intellisense, automates vehicle identification and fuel management systems. It leverages technology to enable security, access and control of private and commercial filling stations/fuel stores while monitoring delivery and outputs. Gricd Mote, on its part, improves real-time storage conditions of temperature-sensitive medications, both stationary and transient. The internet of things (IoT) solution provides real-time information on storage conditions and the location of perishables. It will enable businesses to take proactive measures to curb losses, prove settlement claims and share existing assets to achieve expansion. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .