How the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) handle zoning of the 2023 presidential ticket would determine their acceptability by Nigerians. An APC chieftain in Anambra State, Azuka Okwuosa, who made the assertion, yesterday, in an interaction with journalists, said some politicians have been defecting to the APC due to its positive signs to zone the presidency to the South. Okwuosa, who is one of the few political godsons of the late Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, noted that PDP’s hidden agenda of zoning the presidential slot in 2023 to the north would hurt the party and help retain APC  in power at the centre. Commending the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, for defecting to APC, Okwuosa disclosed that Umahi has done what former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, did in 2013 by defecting from the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to APC. He argued that Umahi must have seen how PDP planned to zone the presidency and presidential running mate from Southeast and decided to join the ruling party, adding that the Southeast was embracing APC for the same reason. Okwuosa, who is also a former Anambra State Commissioner of Works and Transport, declared that the 2021 governorship election in the state would determine how serious the Southeast was about joining mainstream politics. While expressing optimism that APC would capture Anambra in 2021, he, however, pointed out that the governor of the state must be someone who has learnt the ropes and not an inexperienced politician coming from outside the state. “I have been local government council chairman, commissioner and have been involved in activities across political divides. The next governor of Anambra State should not be someone coming to learn on the job, but one that combines experience in the private sector and politics,” he stated.” Okwuosa disclosed that when political activities begin in Anambra State, he may indicate interest to contest as governor, stressing that Anambra State needed someone with the political will to do the right things and humility to unite all sections of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .