Says APC remains party to beat in Lagos State
Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Mr. Tokunbo Abiru, on his emergence as the senator-elect for Lagos East Senatorial District, saying the party’s victory showed its popularity in the state. The governor also congratulated the APC candidate for Kosofe State Constituency II, Mr. Obafemi Saheed, who emerged victorious in last Saturday’s bye-election. According to the results announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), yesterday, Abiru defeated his opponent by wide margin in all the five local councils in the senatorial district, polling 89,204 votes against his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rival, Mr. Babatunde Gbadamosi, who secured 11,257 votes. Saheed polled 12,494 votes to beat his rival, Mr. Sikiru Alebiosu of PDP who got 2,068 votes in Kosofe II Constituency. Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, said APC’s victory with wide margin in the bye-elections was a sound testament to the confidence the people of Lagos State have in the APC. He said: “I want to congratulate Mr. Tokunbo Abiru and Obafemi Saheed on their victory in last Saturday’s bye-elections in Lagos East Senatorial District and Kosofe State Constituency II polls.   Your emergence as federal and state lawmakers is a validation of peoples’ confidence in our dear party, the APC. “The victory of the two candidates of our party in the by-elections clearly showed that APC remains a party to beat in Lagos State based on her achievements in the state since the beginning of the current political dispensation in 1999.” “The successive administrations in Lagos State have put the people at the centre of their action, resulting in several people-oriented programmes. This has continued to manifest in the voting patterns in the state.” The governor advised the two newly-elected lawmakers to continue with the tradition of excellent representation that Lagos legislators are known for. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .