 Lekki Toll Gate  They were even singing the National Anthem; perhaps a re – affirmation of their belief in a re – ordered and rejigged Nigeria, where social justice, equity, egalitarianism, mutual respect, and ethnic and religious tolerance shall reign supreme.  Failed attempts at a cover-up
The narrator told a shocked world how some persons had started demobilizing and disconnecting the CCTV, Camcorders, tollgate and street lights, and other gadgets at the toll gate. The video maker and narrator was making instantaneous commentaries, reminiscent of the football commentaries of Ernest Okonkwo and Olu Fatoyinbo (all of blessed memory), during the glorious days of real titanic football finals in Nigeria, which involved the big teams – Enugu Rangers of Enugu, Bendel Insurance of Benin, IICC Shooting Stars of Ibadan, Mighty Jets of Jos, Stationery Stores of Lagos, etc.
   
He was saying something to the following effect: “Some people have arrived the Lekki toll gate. They are right now demobilizing and disconnecting the CCTV cameras fixed at the toll gate, including the street lights. Why are they doing this? We do not know. Are they planning to attack people and erase the evidence of the killings? We are here monitoring. Oh, they are still going ahead disconnecting the security gadgets. Nigerians and the international community must watch live what is going on now…. “. The government has tried, albeit vainly, to conceal and obfuscate their dastardly and horrific acts. But, they did not reckon with the fact that most people nowadays have cell-phones with cameras; and that thousands were recording live. Witnesses instantaneously posted live images, videos, tweets, on Facebook, LinkedIn, etc. They even live-streamed the goings-on. Millions across the world watched bestiality displayed in the most hideous manner.  Some Questions and Dramas
Many questions: Who put off the CCTV Cameras, toll gate and street lights and other gadgets at the tollgate? Who deployed the military officers to the tollgate in the first instance?
How did Mr Babatunde Fashola, Minister of Works and Housing, who led Federal Government delegates, to commemorate with Lagos State Government, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, suddenly “discover” or “find” a “hidden” camera at the tollgate, five clear days after the bloody massacre? Fashola’s mysterious “discovery” later became the butt of jokes of Nigerians across the world. They wondered how a secret camcorder lens could be found by only him. Some described the “finding” as a pantomime. Others said they are embarrassed, ashamed and insulted to think these government officials think Nigerians are all foolish, daft and unthinking zombies, who would fall cheaply for these make-belief theatricalities of “discovery” five days after Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) had cleaned up the scene of incident; and after Governor Sanwo-Olu had himself toured the entire scene.  The Army, Amnesty and Sanwo-Olu’s Brickbats
 Since the Lekki-tollgate massacre, the Nigerian Army, Governor Sanwo-Olu and Amnesty International have been engaged in an orgy of denials, finger-pointing, accusations and counter accusations.
   
Amnesty reported that Army troops opened fire on peaceful protesters without provocation, killing at least 12. The Army had maintained that its troops were not at the site of the shooting, but Tuesday night a military spokesman, Maj. Osoba Olaniyi, reversed that position, saying soldiers had been deployed there to enforce a curfew; however, he denied that the troops shot at the protesters.
   
“At no time did soldiers of the Nigerian Army open fire on any civilian,” Olaniyi said in a statement. He however maintained the soldiers were deployed on the orders of the Lagos State Government (gosh!). But, Governor Sanwo-Olu denied this, saying the state government has no authority over deployment of Nigerian Army personnel.
   
The military’s admission of its presence at the plaza came after Governor Sanwo-Olu pointedly said security camera footage clearly showed Nigerian soldiers firing at the peaceful protesters at Lekki plaza.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .