Facebook (http://www.Facebook.com) today released its “2020 Year in Review: Highlights” an infographic showcasing some of its key investments and work across Africa in 2020. Supported by an animated video celebrating and showcasing a few people across the continent rising against the challenges of this unexpected year, the campaign aims to highlight the successes, strength and resilience of its users, whilst reinforcing Facebook’s ongoing commitment to the region.  Download Document: https://bit.ly/2Wk3PDM Commenting, Kojo Boakye, Director of Public Policy, Africa said: “We know this year has brought many unexpected challenges around the world, including here in Africa. The COVID pandemic has changed the way we work, come together, and impacted many economies and local businesses. Despite this, we continue to see and hear so many stories of resilience, strength and growth. As Facebook, we remain committed to the continent, and our 2020 highlights reinforce just some of these investments and the impact we’ve been able to have by supporting the growing ecosystems of developers, SMBs, creatives, and many other communities.” Some of the key 2020 Year in Review: Highlights include:  Check out the ‘2020 Year in Review: Highlights’ infographic (http://bit.ly/3ajtGUD) and animated video (http://bit.ly/3oZxMp8) to learn more about Facebook's investments and work across Sub-Saharan Africa in 2020 Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Facebook. Note to Editor:
Attn: News Editor, Facebook has today released an infographic “2020 Year in Review: Highlights” an infographic showcasing some of its key investments and work across Africa in 2020. Supported by an animated video celebrating and showcasing some of the people across the continent rising against the challenges of this unexpected year, it highlights the successes, strength and resilience of its users, whilst reinforcing Facebook’s ongoing commitment to the region. Find below a Press Release detailing the “2020 Year in Review: Highlights” infographic with links to the infographic and a supporting animated video. Also find here a link giving you access to a virtual fireside chat hosted by Kezia Anim-Addo, Head of Communications, Africa which features success stories of people who’ve risen to the challenges and made a positive impact on their communities by using the Facebook Family of Apps. Media Contact:
The ARCrayon Limited
PR agency for Facebook Africa (Kenya)
facebook@thearcrayon.com Facebook Africa Comms
E: Africacomms@fb.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .