On Tuesday, January 1, 2019, Leah Sharibu, donned our cover as The Guardian’s 2018 Person of the Year. She was captioned ‘a goddess of resistance’ whose character of non-compromise and deviance resonated as an exemplar in courage and resistance against terror and injustice. And typical of forerunners, her solitary narrow path in the uncharted territory of resistance has become a superhighway for millions of Nigerian youth to march chanting ‘enough-is-enough’.  
   
February 19, 2018, seems a long time ago. But for the Sharibu family and others whose 109 girls were abducted just before dinner on that somber night at the Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State, it was like yesterday. Unforgettable is the memory even in the blinding flux of defining moments that beset 2020. And in a year when a country goes to war on all fronts, all at once and all over, it is almost natural to forget heroes and villains; dead, wounded, and survivors. The grim realities are in all facets of our lives. A beleaguered economy and naira on a free-fall. Massive job losses caused millions of well-off citizens to cross the poverty line overnight. Monumental corruption ran wild leaving widespread deprivation on its trail. A once-in-a-century plague crept in as a global pandemic but of local and personal devastations. Unattended, insecurity simply worsened with banditry, armed robbery, kidnapping, herders, and farmers’ crisis all freely creating territories without government. Our floundering Commander-in-Chief literally went to bed without an apology. Without social support like we see in other countries, we all mask up the misery in solitude. Such was the year 2020, and one to forget Leah Sharibu in a hurry.
   
But not yet. Not for Citizen Sharibu. The story of her capture and her continued detention by the Boko Haram insurgents as a result of her defiance of compromise and refusal to renounce her faith is the stuff of legend. Leah, then 14, was abducted with 109 other girls of the Dapchi Technical College. Of the 110 girls abducted, five died in captivity while 104 were released on March 20, 2018. Leah Sharibu alone was not released because she refused to renounce her faith and convert to Islam as demanded by her captors. Still missing and in captivity till the present, despite President Muhammadu Buhari’s acceptance of our charge to do everything to bring her home, she has since become the symbol of Nigeria’s refusal to succumb to agents of darkness, hell-bent on dividing the country and appropriating a section of the nation’s territory to themselves. By her principled stand, the battle for the soul of Nigeria became one between a young girl with a heart and a garrison of devils without souls.  • Dr. Wole Oyebade is a member of  The 	Guardian Editorial Board  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .