The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday said revelations trailing the abduction and release of 344 students by bandits have further exposed the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a party in league with bandits, insurgents and terrorists ravaging the country. It said such revelations further explained why “the APC has been acting as the mouthpiece of bandits, rationalising killings and kidnapping, showing express sympathy to terrorists, refusing to condemn acts of terrorism, but attacking any person or groups that dare to criticise the activities of these bandits or demand unconditional release of abductees.” The PDP, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, claimed that Thursday’s statement by the Governor Mai Buni-led APC leadership condemning genuine protest by Nigerian women and youths in Abuja further portrayed APC as a party that has vested interest in the proceeds of these reprehensible enterprises. “Moreover, the statement credited to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, wherein he attempted to rationalise the abduction of the students as a normal occurrence in other parts of the world, validated apprehensions of high-level conspiracy against helpless Nigerians,” The PDP stressed. The opposition party also recalled “the outburst by the Presidency, blaming the killed 43 farmers in Borno State, instead of taking steps to apprehend their assailants,” wondering: “Why is the APC always showing sympathy for and canvassing understanding for bandits, insurgents and terrorists?” The PDP further wondered why the APC is not always forthcoming in condemning acts of terrorism and banditry, seeking to know what the APC and its leaders are gaining from the activities of bandits, terrorists, vandals and kidnappers. According to the PDP: “This is particularly against the backdrop of reported declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari that the abductors and tormentors of our 600 traumatised and brutalised students were rather “settled,” a statement that does not only confirm that the Presidency cannot combat terrorists, but also explains why banditry, kidnapping and acts of terrorism have become a thriving bloody business under the APC.” PDP noted: “The APC’s sympathy for acts of terrorism had led to escalated attacks on our compatriots in the last five years. “It is also very worrisome that our government under the APC can no longer battle bandits and insurgent and now has to rely on nascent groups coordinated by APC leaders to negotiate and pay ransom to assailants.” It lamented that the reported attack on the traditional ruler of Kaura Namoda in Zamfara State, as well as the abduction of the traditional ruler of Ankpa in Kogi State, just after the settlement of the Katsina bandits, showed a disturbing trend. The PDP called on Nigerians to hold the APC responsible for the escalated act of banditry, kidnapping and terrorism ravaging the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .