  An enduring issue about the vaccine is trust which is accentuated by Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Dr. Carey Maddey. The former raises a red-flag in respect of the nucleic acid, namely, DNA and RNA vaccines. In a message dedicated to all his patients, he warned: “I would like to draw your attention urgently to important issues related to the next COVID-19 vaccination. For the first time in the history of vaccination, the so-called last generation mRNA vaccines intervene directly in the genetic material of the patient and therefore alter the individual genetic material, which represents the genetic manipulation, something that was already forbidden and until then considered criminal. This intervention can be compared to genetically manipulated food, which is also highly controversial. Even if the media and politicians currently trivialize the problem and even stupidly call for a new type of vaccine to return to normality, this vaccination is problematic in terms of health, morality and ethics, and also in terms of genetic damage that, unlike the damage caused by previous vaccines, will be irreversible and irreparable”. He concludes that the new vaccines are an unprecedented crime against human humanity, and points somewhat to the complicity of Anthony Fauci who endorsed it and funded by Bill Gates who funded mRNA technology. Kennedy Jr. is controverted in a piece titled, “RFK Jr. Is Our Brother and Uncle. He’s Tragically Wrong about Vaccines” by his relatives, namely, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Joseph P. Kennedy II, and Maeve Kennedy McKean. They allege that their brother is part of a deadly and consequential misinformation campaign on the vaccine. While affirming their love for their brother’s social enterprise in the area of environmental campaign, they fault his position on vaccines and stress their fidelity to its efficacy. According to the threesome, “The reality is that vaccines can have side effects. However, the public health benefits of vaccines to every citizen far outweigh any potential side effects, which, when they do occur, are overwhelmingly minor, rarely serious, and more than justified by the overall benefit to vulnerable populations”. Bobby is not alone, Dr. Carey Maddey, a seasoned medical expert lends her cautious voice to the danger of vaccines, especially the DNA or RNA type. According to her, “I started researching vaccines probably in my early 20s and I’ve been very interested in them but never before have I seen the technology being used on this proposed COVID-19 vaccine. First of all, this vaccine will be using a modified RNA or a modified DNA in the vaccine so why is this important? It is important to know because it could potentially alter our DNA, our genome. So what’s the big deal about DNA or RNA or our genome? Well, the genome is what makes us human, what separates [us] from the rest of the animals and plants in the world, it’s the blueprint for what creates, how we reproduce, how we function, how we repair, how we evolve. So one little change, one little protein inserted, one taken out, one change can actually create a congenital defect or hereditary, a little change is grand so something that can alter that could really be devastating on us humans so they’re proposing using technology and part of this is called transfection, this is the same technology being used to make a genetically modified organism such as a tomato or and we all know that Monsanto is very well known for making genetically modified organisms and they’re not as healthy as the organic wild type you see out in nature so if this is the same technology being used on the plants, well what would happen to us, humans? Potentially we would not be as healthy and I want to remind everyone that this is the first time, that it would be using humans, large scale”. Also, she put it on record the complicity of the US government that gave $1 billion to Moderna, and Gates foundation which gave fund too. Moderna’s clinical trial was not without side effects. It is to be noted that Moderna with a bias for oncology has never developed a human vaccine and was pioneering in this respect. Dr. Maddey warns of a possible mission creep in the use of the vaccine. The vaccine could be administered through the “use [of] a bandage called a micro needle platform, so a micro needle platform would be a bandage that you could get in the mail like Amazon or UPS. It’s a bandage that you would apply on your hand here and you take the sticker off and then voilà, you have a vaccine, you do it yourself. So how are you doing this? The bandage has tiny little micro needles and it is designed after a snake fang or a viper fang so it’s like a bite from a snake but many of them and they say you won’t feel it but it goes into your skin and little tiny micro-needles will be injected; so what’s in that micro-needle? It will be either the DNA or the RNA vaccine. Number two, it will be something called luciferase. Now, this is very important to know. They patented an enzyme called luciferase”. According to Maddey, experimental DNA or RNA vaccine could potentially alter our genome, branded with an ID and mark humans’ connection to artificial intelligence. Indeed, it will lead to “The loss of autonomy, the loss of independence, the loss of privacy, we have to really know what these people are intending to do.” The foregoing controversy about the safety of the vaccines, especially the experimental DNA or mRNA type deserves further stress beyond the touted efficacy. The point is that the clinical trials are ongoing and have not been consummated. Besides, nothing is known about the long term side effects. Next week, I shall address the Russian Sputnik 5 and the seeming relegation of the vaccine. Akhaine is a Professor of Political Science at the Lagos State University To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .