Cultists murder eight persons, burn houses of rival group in Ughelli
Sea pirates have reportedly killed one person, abducted two and hijacked a passenger boat on the Isaka River in Okrika Council Area of Rivers State. The Guardian learnt that some passengers in a boat were travelling from Port Harcourt to Bonny about 10:00a.m. on Monday when pirates struck around Isaka axis en route Bonny, offloaded some occupants and fled with two of the passengers suspected to be wealthy. A source said: “A new boat was hijacked this morning at Isaka area, offloaded the passengers and dropped them in the creek while the hoodlums took away two people believed to be rich among them “The reoccurrence of pirates attack has been a source of serious concern, we are no longer safe and the saddest thing is that the relevant authorities are not doing nothing to stop this menace.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Nnamdi Omoni, said he was yet to be briefed on the incident, but confirmed that the police was making effort to contain the attacks on the waterways. “We have only five gun boats in the state to cover the coastal communities, we are using them judiciously to cover such areas, but we need the cooperation of the communities to achieve optimum security. “We need information from them and the earlier they share the information with us, the better. Security of the waterways should not be a one-way traffic, it needs adequate collaboration between the police and the communities to fight the menace,” he added. MEANHWILE, cult clashes in Ughelli Town, Ughelli North Council Area of Delta State, have worsened as cult groups burnt family houses of rival members. At least four houses were set ablaze at the weekend and no fewer than eight persons reportedly killed in cult clashes that had engulfed the town two weeks ago. It was learnt that Aye and Black Axe cults killed a Vikings member, while members of Vikings went on rampage and burnt family houses of Black Axe members. Police Public Relation Officer (PPRO) in the Delta State Command, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said the police were aware of the cult clashes, but there was no report of family houses burnt in the process. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .