Oyo State Head of Service, Ololade Agboola (left); Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan; Governor Seyi Makinde; Chairman, Amotekun Corps, Brig.-Gen. Kunle Togun (rtd) and others, during the commissioning of 33 operational vehicles and 396 motorcycles for the security network in Ibadan… yesterday. PHOTO: NAJEEM RAHEEM Swears in Ismaila Lawal as commissioner, moves Sangodoyin to Works
Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, yesterday, commissioned about 33 operational vehicles and 396 motorcycles for the state’s Western Nigeria Security Network, code-named Amotekun Corps, to ensure effective security coverage of all nooks and crannies in the state. The ceremony, which took place at the premises of the Oyo State House of Assembly, had in attendance the deputy governor and other top government functionaries. Makinde said that only a restructured Nigeria would address most of the myriad of challenges confronting the nation, particularly security, with every zone of the country developing at its own pace rather than a clamour for presidency to a zone. The governor, who lauded the Amotekun Corps for its current security efforts in the state and urged its officers to work even harder, especially with increase in criminality during this Yuletide period, said that his administration would consider their welfare as a priority. MEANWHILE, the governor, yesterday, swore in Alhaji Ayansiju Lawal as a commissioner, stating that the Executive Council of the state is being driven by ideas and that everybody is working as a team. He, therefore, charged the new commissioner to see his appointment as a call to service, adding that the present administration in the state is concerned about the legacy to be left behind. The new commissioner was assigned to the Establishment and Training Ministry, while his predecessor at the ministry, Prof. Daud Shangodoyin, was moved to the Ministry of Public Works, Infrastructure and Transport. Makinde, while speaking at the Executive Council Chamber of the Governor’s Office, Secretariat, Ibadan, also urged the new commissioner to serve the state with an open mind. Lawal, who spoke with journalists after the swearing-in ceremony, thanked the governor for giving him the opportunity, privilege and trust to serve the people of the state. He pledged that the welfarist programmes of the governor to make life more abundant for the people would be accomplished. Also, Shangodoyin pledged to make sure that the infrastructural development in the state is enhanced.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .