Super Falcons defender, Onome Ebi (left); Epe FA Chairman A. Osinnake; Pat Academy captain, Sunday Oliseh; NFF Technical Director, Augustine Eguavoen; 3SC General Manager, Rasheed Balogun and General Coordinator of event, Waidi Akanni during the Odion Ighalo Soccer Cup competition held in Epe, Lagos… on Sunday. Defending champions, Pat Academy Football Club of Aja, Lagos, at the weekend beat Papa Soccer Academy 1-0 to retain the Odion Ighalo Soccer Cup competition. Sunday Akinbule Ayanfe scored the penalty in the 75th minute to hand Pat Academy victory in the game played at the Odion Ighalo Sports Arena in Epe, Lagos State. Fans had looked forward to seeing the evenly contested duel to go into extra time before the heartbreaking penalty call by the referee, which dashed Papa Soccer Academy’s hopes of success. For their efforts, Pat Academy players were given medals and a dummy cheque of N150, 000 prize by the Nigeria Football Federation Technical Director, Augustine Eguavoen. The losing finalists got a N100, 000 dummy cheque and silver medals presented by the General Manager of Shooting Stars Football Club, Mr. Rasheed Balogun The most valuable player award won by Papa Soccer Academy FC captain, Toheeb Yusuf, was presented to him by Super Falcons defender, Onome Ebi. Speaking on his team’s feat, captain of Pat Academy, Sunday Oliseh, said.
“We have young talented players who develop by the day under the supervision of our great coaches and we mature year in and out to greater glory. “We are proud of the management of Pat FC Academy and we also say a big thank you to Super Eagles and Manchester United’s superstar, Odion Ighalo for putting up this competition for the world to see us play.” Sponsor of the event, Ighalo, who spoke on a live streaming, expressed satisfaction on how the second edition was conducted, and pledged that more innovations would come in subsequent editions of the competition. Former international and General Coordinator of the event, Waidi Akanni, hailed the professional way this year’s edition was conducted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .