President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, reiterated that his administration would “remain unyielding in confronting the Boko Haram insurgency, as well as other forms of criminality that have bedevilled our country.” Speaking at the induction and commissioning of newly acquired NAF MI-171E helicopter and two reactivated Alpha jets and one L39ZA aircraft belonging to the Nigerian Air Force, the Nigerian leader stated: “On our part, we will continue to support you in any way we can to help you become more effective in the execution of your mandate for the safety and security of our country.” According to the President, his administration has boosted the capacity of the force by 23 brand new aircraft in recent times, with more on the way. He continued: “Today’s induction brings to 23 the number of brand new aircraft that have been added to the inventory of the Nigerian Air Force since we came on board in 2015, and is a clear reflection of our unflinching commitment to ensuring the security of Nigeria and Nigerians. “These 23 new aircraft are aside the 15 additional aircraft, including 12 Super Tucano aircraft from the United States of America and 3 JF-17 Thunder Multi-Role Fighter aircraft from Pakistan that have been procured and will soon be delivered.” He said these were apart from support towards reactivating over 25 unserviceable aircraft to “significantly boost the capacity of the service to deliver robust air power in support of our counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency efforts.” Buhari said he had released two Augusta 101 helicopters from the Presidential Air Fleet to NAF to improve its tactical lift capability. He also commended the security forces for successes recorded so far, especially by restoring “some level of stability not only in Borno and Yobe states, but also in Adamawa. Consequently, I want to sincerely thank Nigerians for believing in us and coming together as a nation, irrespective of political, religious and ethnic affiliations, to bring this scourge to an end.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .