Super Eagles and Leicester City of England star, Wilfred Ndidi, Super Falcons striker, Asisat Oshoala of Barcelona FC of Spain, and Napoli star, Victor Osimhen were the outstanding recipients at the Seventh Nigeria Pitch Awards held in Lagos yesterday. While Ndidi was crowned the King of the Pitch, Oshoala went home with the Queen of the Pitch award. Ndidi also won the Best Midfielder Award 2019. The event attended by top Nigerian Football stakeholders, including the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) represented by Director Media, Ademola Olajire, as well as the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, and DIG Usman Alkali, who represented the Inspector-General of Police, was filled with glamour even as participants observed social distancing and other COVID-19 protocols. Victor Osimhen was crowed the best striker of the year owing to his outstanding performance in the French league and the senior national team, Daniel Akpeyi emerged the goalkeeper of the year. William Troost-Ekong emerged the best defender of the year 2019, the Club of the Year award went to Enyimba of Aba, just as the Football Friendly Governor award went to Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State for his contributions to football development. Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr was named the Coach of the Year, Lagos State got the award for the state with the best football development programme, while NFF Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi got the Sam Okwaraji awards. Speaking at the event, President, Nigeria Pitch Awards, Shina Philips, said, “The award is designed to honour any Nigerian who in the course of discharging his or her duties in the public sphere exhibits the spirit of sportsmanship that ensures peaceful relationship and co- existence. “The Inspector-General of Police has displayed these attributes in the discharge of his duties.” Phillips recalled that the awards had been postponed several times because of the COVID-19 protocols, adding, “We are immensely grateful for the support we received from all our voters, sports editors, journalists and media houses across Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .