Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong (middle), Otunba Olusegun (second right) and other officials during the golf competition that rounded off the National Festival of Arts and Culture in Jos… at the weekend Golfers in Nigeria will now have a good reason to thank the Director General of the National Council of Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe.
This because Runsewe, without holding anything back, laid it bare that it was a monumental betrayal when the game of golf was suspended along all other sports at the heat of the COVID-19. Speaking at the golf tourney that rounded off the just-concluded National Festival in Jos, Runsewe said golf from the beginning of time has been COVID-19 compliant since golfers are known to walk their separate paths on the course without any contact whatsoever, maintaining at least some 10 metres social distance from each another. “Golf is a noble and distinct game,” Runsewe said. “Even in a set of four players, you see each player maintaining far distance from the others. Even Caddies, who are integral part of the game, allow some five metres social distancing when they have to attend to golfers. And if golfers are to greet themselves, they still don’t maintain contact. Even shaking through elbows is unnecessary. All a golfer will do when he wants to greet is to remove his cap, place it on his chest and put it back on his head. It is very COVID compliant as no contact is expressed.” At the event, the tourism icon seized the opportunity to popularize the cultural golf wear as over 250 golfers, including the Plateau Governor, Simon Lalong, turned up adorning the outfit at the event. “Nothing speaks louder than this,” Runsewe said. “If the governor can play his game in a local attire, then it must be acceptable. My joy here is if a sizeable number out of some four million Nigerians playing golf can adopt the cultural wear, there will be more than enough jobs for thousands of our tailors.” The competition ended on a joyous note when Runsewe pleaded with Governor Lalong to retire the 107 years old golf trophy celebrated at the Rayfield Golf Club to the National Museum and the governor gave his consent.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .