• Nasarawa places restriction on gatherings The Department of State Services (DSS) has alerted Nigerians to plans by some criminal elements to carry out violent attacks on public places, including key and vulnerable points, during Christmas festivities. The secret police said the “planned dastardly acts are to be executed through the use of explosives, suicide bombing, and other dangerous weapons.” In a statement yesterday by the Public Relations Officer of the DSS, Peter Afunanya, the security agency said: “The objective is to create a general sense of fear among the people and subsequently undermine the government. “Against this backdrop, citizens are called upon to be extra vigilant and report strange movements and indeed, all suspicions around them to security and law enforcement agencies. “On its part, the Service is collaborating with other sister agencies to ensure that adequate measures are put in place for the protection of life and property. “To further achieve this purpose, the Service has provided these emergency response numbers – 08132222105 and 09030002189–for urgent contacts.  It is also using this opportunity to unveil its interactive website– www.dss.gov.ng–for public communication support.” DSS encouraged everyone to take advantage of the platforms and similar ones provided by related agencies to timely reach and avail them (security agencies) of the required information. The Service advised those planning to cause chaos and damage to public peace to desist from such as it would stop at nothing to apprehend and bring them to justice. “While assuring citizens and residents of their safety during and after the festive periods, the Director-General, Alhaji Y.M. Bichi, with his management and staff, wishes all happy celebrations and a prosperous 2021” the statement read. MEANWHILE, the Nasarawa State government has warned that gatherings of persons more than 50 would not be allowed during the festivities as over 30 new cases of coronavirus have been reported in the state. The Acting Governor, Dr. Emmanuel Akabe, who doubles as the chairman of the tasks force on COVID-19, gave the warning at a press briefing in Lafia, the state capital. Akabe lamented that the new wave of COVID-19 is more violent and is prevalent among young people. “Three health workers are presently down with coronavirus infection in the state.” “Nobody should be allowed into any worship place without a face mask. Social distance measure, hands washing and use of hands sanitizer should be observed at religious gatherings in the state” Akabe warned.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .