Nigerian youths, especially in the Southwest, have been urged to engage in agriculture to alleviate food scarcity in the country.
  
Assistant Director of Education, Awolaja Abosede, who said this during Imota Student’s Union forum which focused on agriculture, education and social vices, tagged: ‘Yes 2020, Connecting the Dots,’ urged the youths to take advantage of the high demand of food and strengthen the agricultural sector by involving actively in it.
  
She noted that it was saddening that youths were ignorant of the benefits embedded in agriculture, saying that people would always demand food and demand is usually higher than supply.
  
Abosede, however, urged the government to do its part by providing basic infrastructure like good roads, adequate transport system and improved varieties of crops and animals to the younger generation.
  
“The current food scarcity is an opener, and this is time to encourage our youths in the southwest to be involved in agriculture. Our youths should be involved in planting and even if it’s not on a large scale yet, I believe as time goes by, they can do more. Our food supplies do not have to come from the North, we can provide what we eat and all will be well. I urge the government to support this process and it would be of benefit to everyone.”
 
On his part, Ajobiewe Bamidele expressed displeasure over youths’ nonchalant attitude towards agriculture, saying they were more interested in getting rich quick ventures.
  
“Processing is one aspect of Agriculture that can give you quick money. I buy, I process within two to three days and I sell. Misinformation has not helped us. The word Agriculture is large.
   
“Agriculture is capital intensive and the government needs to put more effort in funding and the banks should also be lenient in releasing loans to investors. I encourage the youths to look into other value chains of Agriculture that require less time.” DPO, Imota, Olumuyiwa Adejobi urged the youths to engage their time meaningfully and shun all forms of social vices.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .