 [FILE] President Muhammadu Buhari is currently in a virtual meeting with members of the Governors Forum’s Security Committee, headed by Gov. Yahaya Bello of Kogi over security developments in some parts of the country.  PHOTO: Twitter  Without mincing words or with no iota of reservations, Buhari’s administration is a failure of success, and successful loss in a country bedeviled with so many contradictions. My initial and unconditional support for Buhari’s Presidential candidacy was born out of love for a beleaguered country we all love. I have no apologies for wanting Buhari to succeed as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. But I am also not ashamed to sincerely tender my unreserved apologies for those who, out of patriotism and love, periodically criticized and advised Buharists against being impassioned about Buhari’s inability to perform effectively as we had expected. Buhari is tired and devoid of ideas on how to rescue Nigeria. I am loud now in wailing to declare that Buhari doesn’t belong to everybody but belongs to somebody else in the Northern oligarchy and fouled Nigeria’s religious firmament. President Muhammadu Buhari has more explainings to do for all Nigerians, NOW! There are more to recurring ugly news daily churning out of Nigeria. Those of us who were Buhari’s ardent and (un)repentant supporters have no moral justification to keep deafening silence while he fails us. All Nigerians are not safe under his administration. Buhari’s government is morbidly failing Nigerians. Mr. President should be told that this carnage, kidnapping, psychological trauma, and hopelessness are too much. If out of his old age, the President is unable to meet basic security needs, he should declare a state of emergency in Nigeria, NOW, and give power to capable young, vibrant, and articulate Nigerian to redraw our current famished road map. Daily killings and sufferings are too much for a nation in distress. The country Mr. President presides is under morbid siege. He should urgently do something, now. Sadly, every day is a troubling day in a troubled nation——Nigeria. Nigerians are now numbed to killings, maiming, kidnapping, and destruction of lives and property. As a bruised Buharist, my advice to twilight President Buhari is to resign his presidency and go home to rest in Daura. The present constituents of Nigeria is a colossal joke. Buhari has no clue on how to deconstruct the Nigerian generic and mystical sins. Nigeria is a “mere geographical expression” where injustices, inequities, unfairness, inconsistencies, iniquities, the hypothesis of hypocrisy, religious brigand, corruption, nepotism, deliberate ignorance, favoritism, etc., hold sway. Nigerian Constitution is also a mere paper shredder, and I am beginning not to believe in the “mere geographical expression” called Nigeria as espoused by the late sage Obafemi Awolowo. The more I look at the constituents of this contraption, the more I see great contradictions and injustices in the hypothesis of the current Nigerian constitution’s hypocrisy. Nigeria is a lawless country where the citizens. (e.g., politicians and religious leaders) daily pronounce laws and God but laced their behavior with insincerity and pretense. The rule of law and laws of God are mouthed every day with no recourse to moral decency, discipline, compassion, and uprightness. Academically, President Buhari’s leadership should be a case study on how not to misplace priority and an excellent opportunity for success in a contentious society. President Buhari’s incapacitation to meet people’s expectations is the bane of his administration. Consistency and enforcement of expectations provide the basis for effective governance. Where Buhari’s administration has made a quantum leap, Buhari’s handlers have ruined his unannounced and unsavoury successes. Nigerians from all walks of life have offered their genuine advice for Buhari’s victory. Still, he has gently brought his reputation to the slopes. With sustained leadership of the past, President Buhari’s administration has sadly drained into a considerable number of doubts, turning Nigeria into a morass of corruption, hopelessness, and insecurity. Buhari’s failure is solely premised on his recalcitrant attitude of putting the round pegs in the square holes—-a recipe for failure! Nigeria has continued to drain its best brains and human capital to the advanced countries in the world. Unfortunately, while Nigeria is brimming with vibrant, jobless young, and impeccable human resources, President Buhari’s gerontocratic government is entwined with sluggishness, deliberate indifference, and nepotism. Buhari’s gerontocracy is a system whereby the old group of senile leaders with no clues about how government functions are administering a virile society like Nigeria. This has destroyed the remnants of his frugal and hyped integrity and ultimately fizzled out his moral conscience and consciousness. People’s hope and aspirations in the President have dwindled. Nigeria is now a country in the graveyard of horror. Our leaders have turned a potentially great nation into a potential mortuary where talented citizens are morbidly deposited daily with no hope on the horizon. President Buhari must wake up to the cries (wailing) of the genuine people who want the best for Nigeria. The President should resign for his wellness and well-deserved rest in Daura. But after Buhari’s imagined resignation, what is next? This is a contentious question that no one can adequately answer because of Nigeria’s lineage of corruption. Corruption is a culture in Nigeria. And the culture of bribery entwined the two most prominent religions (Christianity and Islam) in Nigeria. As Nigeria is bleeding profusely into the abyss of time, the resilient spirit of Nigeria is being bludgeoned by the proponents of these two principal religions, in collaboration with the political elites. Nigeria’s ailing body must be rescued from the intensive care unit—–ICU of the oligarchs and religious bigots. Otherwise, we are all going to be bereaved of Nigeria’s comatose entity and structure in no distant time. The time to rescue Nigeria is now!
Balogun writes from Arizona, USA. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .