We’re reconstructing roundabouts to ease transportation, says gov
Former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, yesterday, appealed to Governor Hope Uzodinma to stop demolishing his legacy projects during his eight-year administration in the state. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media, Sam Onwuemeodo, he (Okorocha) described the demolishing of seven roundabouts built by his administration in Owerri, as insensitive. “It has become necessary to appeal to Governor Uzodinma to stop demolishing Okorocha’s projects, which he built for lmo people and for the development and progress of the state, especially, when the incumbent governor is not building any structures and is not likely to initiate any. “On Tuesday, December 22, 2020, Uzodinma again, deployed bulldozers to demolish the Orlu-Assumpta Road Roundabout, which Okorocha constructed to ease traffic. He not only built the roundabout, but also expanded Bank Road to eight lanes. “Governor Uzodinma chose to demolish the roundabout this Christmas season, when the state is expected to witness influx of people and vehicles. And he demolished the roundabout without telling lmo people why he did that and what he intends to do with the place. This is somewhat, insensitive,” the statement reads. Okorocha also lamented that Uzodinma had demolished a tunnel constructed from 2011 to2019), stressing: “Before the demolition of the roundabout, Governor Uzodinma had demolished another Okorocha project, the Akanu lbiam Tunnel.” He explained that the project was built on the House of Assembly-Port Harcourt Road junction, insisting that he built the tunnel to save lives, because before the construction of the tunnel, people died regularly on that spot. The former governor, who now represents Imo West Senatorial District, recalled that the demolition of Somto Hospital on Douglas Road, Owerri, was built in memory of the a 10-year old killed by security operatives during the demolition of Ekeukwu Owerre Market, among others. However, Uzodimma insisted that the projects were being demolished to ease transportation in the state, especially in Owerri, the Capital City. He had told Imo people that he contracted a firm knowledgeable on construction of modern roundabouts that would ease traffic gridlock with traffic lights, lamenting that motorists spent hours trying to access other parts of the state. The governor pleaded with Imo people and other commuters to bear with the inconveniences caused by the demolitions and reconstructions. Following the general outcry that greeted the demolitions Governor Uzodinma also told Imo people that he was demolishing some of the structures to rebuild them up to standard. But Okorocha disagreed, arguing that due the quality of the materials used in constructing some of the legacy projects, the bulldozers doing the demolitions have not been able to level some of the structures, adding that to make matters worse, some of the projects were being abandoned after the demolitions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .