Shooting Stars of Ibadan aim to return to the Nigerian Professional Football League One of Nigeria’s biggest clubs still languishing in the second tier of the country’s football, Shooting Stats Sports Club (3SC) believe their season to finally return to the elite class has come. 3SC, the first Nigerian club to win a continental championship when they won the defunct Cup Winners Cup in 1976, have been moving up and down the leagues since their last attempt to win the CAF Champions League in 1993. The Oluyole Warriors in the last two campaigns tried fruitlessly to make the big return they faltered at the last minute. Now the managers of the club believe they have been better fortified for the climb this term. The general manager of the club, Rashidi Balogun on Monday beat his chest to claim that the Oyo State government has so invested in the side that it has no reason to fail this season’s promotion test. Speaking on a radio magazine programme in Ibadan, where he described Governor Seyi Makinde as a God sent to the club, Balogun said the team now have everything they need to excel, adding that the only thing the governor is demanding from the management is to restore the club to the top flight. “Governor Seyi Makinde is like a God sent to us… when most clubs in this country are paying half wages due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus, we are getting our full wages and all the outstanding salaries and bonuses owned by the past administration were all cleared by Governor Makinde. “Now, our players are happy and in high spirit to reciprocate this good gesture with excellent performance. The singular thing the governor is demanding from the team is a promotion ticket and we’re not going to disappoint him.” On the recent Dapo Abiodun Pre-season Tournament won by the club in Ogun State, Balogun said, “I always like to participate in the competition because it is a good endurance exercise for the team, which improves the fitness level of the boys and puts them in good shape. “Although we’re happy winning the cup back-to-back, what we really derived from the tournament is the endurance and physical fitness… we played morning and evening during the event which improved the fitness level of the boys. “The supporters are happy and currently have full confidence in us; there is no bickering, and there is much love within the club. I can say we’re now one big family now.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .