 Senator Rabiu  Kwankwaso  The internal crisis within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano is getting worse by the day, as two gladiators battle for the soul of the opposition party. Both factions are deploying every means possible, including legal instruments to claim control.
 
Since losing the governorship election to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) last year, the opposition party has been struggling to survive its internal skirmishes. Observers believe the party’s unraveling is in the interest of the ruling APC, essentially ensuring that the two central figures – former Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali, never reconcile.     
 
Even with the intimidating ubiquity of the red and white symbols of the Kwankwasiyya movement, with its substantial numerical strength in the party, Kwankwaso has tried all he could to displace Wali’s splinter group to no avail. The Walis have always maintained ownership of PDP in Kano, even when the central working committee of the party ceded the leadership to Kwankwaso, the decision Wali’s group challenged.  “We are of the conviction that credibility is lacking in KANSIEC,” Danladi charged. “The PDP and indeed the people of Kano cannot forget how Governor Ganduje and the APC, in connivance with electoral officials, used hoodlums and political thugs as well as security agents to intimidate voters and disenfranchise the populace during the 2019 general election.
 
“In our wisdom as the main opposition, we cannot give credibility to an election that has a prearranged outcome, an election conducted by a government that stole our mandate. Our decision also predicates on the fact that we don’t have confidence in the electoral process and that we will not get a level playing field from KANSIEC.” While countering Kwankwasiyya’s argument, the protem chairman of the party, Muhammina Bako Lamido and an ally of Wali, insisted PDP would participate in the council poll with aspirants for both 44 chairmanship and 484 councillorship positions.  Despite the court verdict, KANSIEC has said Wali’s faction remains a valid part of the January 16 local council poll. KANSIEC insisted, “there is no concrete evidence before the commission to deny the Wali’s faction an opportunity to contest the poll.”  “For instance, the court in its judgment did not mention KANSIEC and that is why we would continue to recognise the people that bought forms to contest elections until the court says otherwise. But for now, we have PDP as one of the 12 political parties contesting the council poll.” MEANWHILE, Governor Ganduje has also countered Kwankwasiyya’s position to boycott the election, saying the move is an indication that the movement is no longer relevant in the politics of the state. In a statement issued by the Commissioner for Information in Kano, Mallam Muhammad Garba, Ganduje maintained that besides withdrawing from the poll, Kwankwasiyya has no platform to participate in the poll.
 
Ganduje, who stressed that KANSIEC is an independent body empowered to conduct credible election, dismissed the allegation of fraud levelled against him by the Kwnankwasiyya group that the monies earmarked for the conduct was meant to compromise the system.   
 
“We are not surprised at this claim by the beleaguered group, which is in legal battle with another faction of the party over its status and the PDP headquarters, by the provision of the constitution of the party, only identify and recognise the State Working Committee to take charge of the affairs of the party in such circumstances,” Ganduje said. “While the All Progressives Congress (APC) has already ensured the emergence of its candidates for the local government election through consensus or conduct of primary election, you may also recall that during the 2013 local polls, Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso single-handedly handpicked and imposed candidates on the people.” Although Wali’s faction has denied that the ruling APC was interfering in PDP’s affairs, the reaction of the government indicates otherwise, with observers viewing the crisis in PDP as having the imprint of Ganduje’s government. For instance, the eldest son of Wali, Hon. Sadiq Aminu Wali, was recently appointed Commissioner of Water Resources in Ganduje’s cabinet. Wali Jr has made it clear that he remains a card-carrying member of PDP, even as he serves in Ganduje’s government.   
  
While still battling the internal crisis, the Kwankwasiyya movement has maintained stiff opposition to Ganduje’s government, accusing it of selling public property. While addressing journalists recently, one of the leaders of the Kwankwasiyya movement and PDP running mate at the last election, Comrade Aminu Abdulsalam, chided Ganduje for what he considered reckless and unacceptable conversion of public property to private ownership.
 
According to Abdulsalam, the Ganduje administration has sold Kano State’s Zoological Gardens, Daula Hotel, Triumph Publishing Company, Eid Ground, Panshekara Modern Abattoir, Hajj Camp, and Shahuci Motor Park. The PDP chieftain, who insisted that the opposition party would not be deluded by promises of investment return to the state, accused the governor of disposing of public property to a few cronies and family members.
 
Abdulsalam reminded that “Ganduje’s last five years of administration is disastrous, characterised by underdevelopment and failure to deliver to the good people of Kano. We are calling on the attention of the government and the wealthy, egocentric individuals involved in the grabbing of public land to desist from this mindless act. The people of Kano, our party the PDP, would not give any self-serving politician and his cohorts the latitude to convert public properties for selfish use.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .