 Ekiti State Governor,Dr. Kayode Fayemi (left); President, Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON), Sir Dipo Ajayi (middle) and Kwara State representative in ARCON,  Kayode Makanjuola  during ARCON’s visit to the governor  in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti.  The registration would be through the ‘Project Registration Number’ (APRN), which would enable the government to track revenues that accrue from building approval charges, land use, property taxes, ground rent, and other building development-related revenues. ARCON President, Sir Dipo Ajayi, made this disclosure when he led members of the council on a visit to the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. According to him, other benefits of the project will include, enabling the collation of labour and employment statistics, tracking of building construction activity on the registered projects. It will also initialise the development of a full database for all building development to enhance Internally Generated Revenue from the building sector, and promote evaluation of buildings by designers to meet required regulations and standards. Ajayi said, “The initiative will act as a strong preventive measure against building collapse, improve the beauty, landscape and grow the capacity of building industry professionals within the state.” To drive the goal, Ajayi said the state government is required to ensure the appointment of at least one ARCON registered and certified architect to oversee the administration of the APRN system within each Local Government Areas and see to the appointment of a state’s Director of Architecture. ARCON appealed for the improvement in the architect’s salary to attract the best of hands because of the number of years it takes to qualify. “A situation where an architect’s salary is equated with that of the first degree in any course of study would definitely not attract the best hands,” he said. Reacting to the proposal, Governor Fayemi welcomed the APRN initiative, stating that it is a product that could work very well with the government’s land use charge and master planning process, not just for the capital city but for the entire state.   He said for it to be well-grounded, ARCON should engage the Governors’ Forum. The Governor advised ARCON to play a more active role in the entry point of architects into the civil service, adding that professionals such as architects cannot be placed on the same entry-level with others, rather they should be given special consideration like doctors. He solicited the help of the council in its master planning projects, starting from the capital, Ado-Ekiti to forestall illegal development. Dr. Fayemi said the government would need the inputs of architects and environmental designers in the state’s processing zone designs in the smart cities’ project. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .