 Jonathan  Responding to a question on a television programme monitored in Lagos, Governor Wike regretted that PDP leaders were not living up to expectations as a purposeful opposition party prepared to take over the reins of power from the governing All Progressives Congress (APC).  “Rather, what they have done is to constitute some people to sow a seed of discord among governors for their own selfish interest. And that will boomerang; that will consume them.
 
“PDP ought to have harvested from the inefficiency of the APC; from the maladministration of the APC. Ordinarily, that is what the opposition party ought to do. The present National Working Committee is not interested or doing anything to take over the realms of government in 2023. When your interest is to remain in power, you are no longer interested to win the election.”
   
Coming barely one week after his Imo State counterpart, Senator Hope Uzodimma, disclosed that his party, APC, was all out to lure every opposition politician in Southeast to the governing party, Wike’s tirade raised fresh concerns about the stability of PDP.  Jonathan’s corollary 
FAST forward to the build-up to another general election cycle in 2023, former President Goodluck Jonathan, who was disdained, defeated, and displaced by APC in 2015, is being burnished for another national “assignment.”
   
Just as virtually every major political push by the governing APC begins as a rumour, the new liking for Jonathan began innocuously.  At first, it was his frequent sallies to and from the Presidential Villa, where he was wont to confer with President Buhari on some continental assignments that revolve around elections and peacebuilding.
 
But, heads turned when shortly after the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lost the Bayelsa State governorship poll late last year. Some state governors elected on the platform of APC, including Senator Atiku Bagudu and Alhaji Mohammed Badaru, paid what was considered a thank you visit on Jonathan in his country home at Otuoke, shortly after the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) announced Mr. David Lyon of APC as the winner of the November 16, 2019 poll.  Pawn or parry
It is a well-acknowledged fact that former President Jonathan lacks the sophisticated sagacity or disloyalty of established Nigerian politicians. However, his weak assertion that it was too early to talk about 2023 presidential permutations suggested that he must have been privy to such plots. 
 
In his pacific disposition, it is not easy to ascertain how bitter the internal disagreement between the former President and immediate past Governor Henry Seriake Dickson was over who should be the PDP governorship standard-bearer for the last Bayelsa gubernatorial poll. While Dickson insisted on Douye Diri and Lawrence Ewruhjakpor to pave the way for his eventual sail to the Senate, Jonathan was said to have favoured the former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Ndutimi Alaibe for the PDP ticket.  “As a governor of Rivers State, you have displayed great courage and wisdom in protecting the interest of your people, promoting peace, and upholding the unity of Nigeria,” Jonathan stated in his goodwill message.
 
Also, sources claimed that although the Supreme Court’s sacking of Lyon miraculously enthroned Diri as Bayelsa governor, Dickson’s obduracy made Jonathan quite uncomfortable with PDP.  Constitutional snag
IN the event that he falls for the bait, former President Jonathan should keep his eyes open to see the booby traps.  Dragging Jonathan into the presidential fray might be a ploy, after all, perhaps to dilute a Southeast or Tinubu Presidency. Good for Nigeria, bad for North
WHETHER the former President succumbs to overtures or takes the path of honour to remain a statesman, a former Senator and member of National Interest Group (NIG), Anthony Agbo, has argued that the plan would not augur well for northern Nigeria.
 
Agbo told The Guardian, “bringing back the former president can only be good for Nigeria and Nigerians, but shall, without doubt, accomplish the exact opposite of what the planners intended.”
 
He disclosed that a Jonathan presidency would “reinforce and complicate the problems, which the northern political interest group intended it to solve.
 
“Another presidential tenure in 2023 for Goodluck Jonathan will no doubt gladden the hearts of many Nigerians, because of his soft and humanist disposition to governance.  “When that happens, the north itself and the rest of Nigeria will have no option than to grant the Igbo a chance, thereby having the presidency in the south for three straight terms,” he added.
   
Agbo believes that a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction would benefit the north more than it could ever benefit the Igbo, adding: “The Igbo Presidency would benefit the north even far more than any northern president can ever benefit the north as a result of the avowed Igbo liberal spirit and nationalistic disposition.
 
“Due to the rising political awareness; the insistent and deafening cry for justice all over Nigeria, there seems to be no other way forward for our country than to take a bold and decisive step to healing the nation by breaking down the walls of suspicion, fear and inhibitions that separate us and assuage whatever genuine feelings that burden the major segments of the Nigerian nation.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .