 [FILES] Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta. Photo; TWITTER/NGCOMMUNICATIONCOMM  For the telecommunications sector, 2020 has been eventful across the globe. The importance of the sector was underscored by the Coronavirus pandemic.
  
The virus, which has remained a dreaded scourge, gave wings to technological innovations. The shifting of daily life online has been one of the most far-reaching consequences of the coronavirus pandemic. While it is not without its challenges, broad-based digitalisation has helped governments around the world to stem the spread of COVID-19 by halting human exploration completely and created new growth opportunities for private companies.
   
While the world grappled with the pandemic, most governments, Nigeria’s inclusive, imposed some forms of lockdown, typically involving a series of measures aimed at slowing the spread of the virus. For example, many countries banned travel flights; moved all forms of teaching online; closed non-essential businesses; imposed total or partial curfews and, where possible, encouraged employees to work remotely.  New Strategic Management Plan (SMP) to drive Digital Economy
The NCC in June 2020, unveiled its new Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024, which will be a pedestal to drive the implementation of the Federal Government’s digital economy vision. The launch of the SMP demonstrated the Commission’s improvement in performance matrix and efforts in accelerating the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the National Broadband Plan (NBP) 2020 – 2025 of the Federal Government.
  
The SMP, according to the Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, is the fulcrum that will aid the telecoms regulator in driving its regulatory mandate in the fast-evolving telecoms industry, in the next five years. It will also serve as a roadmap for the future of the Nigerian telecoms sector, taking into consideration the current and emerging trends in the industry and the numerous expectations of the diverse stakeholders.
   
The SMP 2020 – 2024 is the visioning document of the Commission for planning, monitoring, analysing, and assessing of NCC to meet its goals and set objectives. It has five pillars, which include regulatory excellence, universal broadband, promote the development of digital economy, market development; and strategic partnering and 25 intended outcomes. Consultation on planned 5G technology deployment
Following the misinformation, miscommunication, misunderstanding and misconception that greeted the trial of 5G by the NCC in 2019, the Commission in 2020 began a deliberate regulatory measure by developing a Draft Consultation Document on the Deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) Mobile Technology in Nigeria. The document defines the implementation plan for the deployment of 5G in Nigeria. It provides a background into the benefits of 5G technology and outlines the Commission’s plans and strategies for a successful implementation of 5G in Nigeria and clearly presents guidelines for the relevant areas of the technology and the expectations of the Commission from the operators. This Plan takes into account the expectations of all the stakeholders in the communications industry in Nigeria. Nigeria undertook 5G trials in selected locations within the country in collaboration with an Operator in 2019. The trial, among others, was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present and Danbatta, has clearly stated that “For the avoidance of doubt, as with the previous technologies such as 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G, the Commission will not commence 5G deployment without due consultation with all relevant stakeholders.” Boosting FG’s revenue generation
Within the last five years to 2020, the Commission generated and remitted N344.71 billion to Federal Government Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) from spectrum fees and operating surplus. It also embarked on spectrum auctions, re-planning, re-farming to optimsie the usage of the scarce resource while it continued to address the quality of service (QoS) delivery through monitoring of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and development of KPIs for 3G and 4G, all in a bid to ensure improved service delivery to telecoms consumers. The Commission received commendation on this financial performance by the House Committee on Telecommunications, which visited NCC on an oversight function in October, 2020. The committee urged the NCC to sustain its current template of ensuring effective regulation of the telecoms sector in a manner that would be more mutually beneficial to the industry players, the consumers of the telecoms services and to the Nigerian government. Approval for trial of e-SIM, and national roaming
In line with its commitment to putting Nigeria’s telecoms sector at par with technologies that can revolutionise consumer experience, the NCC granted approval for two mobile network operators (MNOs), MTN Nigeria and 9Mobile, to carry out a trial on the workability of embedded Subscriber Identification Modules (e-SIM) Service in Nigeria.
  
The trial, approved to run for a period of one year, will involve testing 5,000 e-SIMs by the two networks, subject to compliance with a number of regulatory conditions.  Review of InfraCo project for effectiveness
In the year under review, the NCC beamed a searchlight on InfraCo framework and their funding options.    To this end, the Commission constituted a committee to review the framework for the licensing of Infrastructure Companies (InfraCo) and recommend sustainable funding options for effective implementation of the proposed national fibre project. It should be noted that the constitution of the committee was a sequel to the requirements of the NNBP 2020 to2025 and reports of relevant committees set up by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which include the Inter-Ministerial Review Committee on Multiple Taxation on Telecommunications Operators over Right-of-Way (RoW) and the Technical Sub-Committee on Right-of-Way for Deepening Broadband Penetration in Nigeria. These requirements and reports related to the imperative of reviewing the InfraCo framework to cater for the delays in take-off, change in the exchange rate, supply chain and other challenges imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sanitising the industry of SIM-related crimes
The Commission is currently working mobile network operators (MNOs) with other agencies such as the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) in line with Federal Government’s Directive for telecoms subscribers to link their National Identification Number (NINs) with the SIM database with a view to addressing SIM-related crimes  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .