Mr Malle Moses, a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Nassarawa State, has urged the people to support Gov. Abdullahi Sule’s administration in its quest to develop the state. Moses, also APC Caretaker Chairman, Nassarawa Eggon Local Government Area (LGA) of the state, said this on Sundday during a thanksgiving service at Evangelical Reformed Church of Christ (ERCC) Ogba, Akun Development Area of the state. He also called on the people of Nasarawa North to support Sen. Godiya Akwashiki ( APC- Nasarawa North) to enable him to succeed. He said that Sule and Akwashiki were doing well in their positions, hence the need for the people to continue to pray and support them to succeed. ” I organised this thanksgiving service to appreciate God over my life and over my political successes. ” I was a one time Congress for Progressives Change ( CPC) Chairman in my ward, Ogba, a councillor, overseer, Akun Development Area, APC Deputy Chairman, Nassarawa Eggon LGA and acting APC Chairman, Nassarawa Eggon LGA. ” And now APC Caretaker Chairman, Nassarawa Eggon LGA and I have been using a motorbike and now Sen. Godiya Akwashiki has donated a brand new car to me. ” What did I have to say to God, to thank and appreciate him over my political success, hence the need for this thanksgiving, ” he said.
Moses urged the people to be loyal and supportive to the government at all times in order to enjoy more dividends of democracy. ” Gov. Abdullahi Sule, Sen.Godiya Akwashiki and Mr Mohammed Muluku representing Nassarawa Eggon East constituency at the state assembly and Mr Mohammed Idris, the Chairman,Nassarawa Eggon Local government council are doing well. ” This is evident in their good projects that have direct bearing on the lives of the people,” he said. Earlier, Rev. Sabo Kuje, the Reverend in charge of ERCC Ogba while quoting various scriptures in the bible said that it was always good to give thanks to God no matter the situation or condition. He urged politicians and other Nigerians to always live a life worth of emulation in order to inherit the kingdom of God and for the overall development of the country. The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) reports that the service was attended by politicians, traditional rulers and well wishers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .