Ekiti State Stakeholders Forum of the All Progressives Congress (APC), yesterday, distanced itself from an alleged endorsement of Governor Kayode Fayemi for the 2023 presidential race. The party’s Caretaker Chairman in the state, Paul Omotoso, had said the party members would cajole Governor Fayemi into the 2023 presidency, if he refused to join the race. He stated this spoke at Ayede-Ekiti in Oye Council Area at the weekend during a Christmas programme organised by a chieftain of the party, Dr. Olusegun Osinkolu for 1,000 APC members in Ekiti North Senatorial District. Omotoso, who was represented by the APC Caretaker Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, said: “APC will win the Ekiti governorship election in 2022, because Fayemi has done well and we don’t want another reckless party that will destroy Ekiti again. “On the 2023 presidency, time has come for the nation’s President to come from Ekiti. That is why we are pleading with everyone to support Governor Fayemi.” But the stakeholders’ forum described the alleged endorsement as Omotoso’s personal view, adding that APC leaders in Ekiti State were not aware of the plan. In a statement by Secretary of Omo’ba Bamgboye Adegoroye, it insisted that Fayemi’s purported endorsement represented the views of a small clique in the party. “Our attention has been drawn to a statement credited to Paul Omotoso on the idea that Ekiti State chapter of APC has backed Kayode Fayemi for 2023 Presidency. “We want to state that Ajayi, who represented Omotoso at an event, expressed a personal view where the convener was absent or at best the views of a small clique in the party. APC leaders in Ekiti are unaware of the idea. Again, we note that Ajayi’s boss does not even believe that the position should be zoned to Southwest, as expressed on a national platform recently. “States in the South of Nigeria deserve a shot at the Presidency if it is agreed upon by the National leaders of our party. Ekiti State Stakeholders Forum and other Yoruba leaders will canvass an opportunity to produce the next President in 2023. “The adoption of an authentic, qualified, popular, humane and experienced Yoruba man is our goal and we will play our part in accomplishing that task,” the statement reads. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .