 Efe Omorogbe  For a phenomenon who has spent much of the last quarter of a century dominating fellow foreground figures, brands and platforms, an understated guy in the background stands a great chance of having his identity subsumed by the super brand that is 2Baba, albeit inadvertently.
 
While I’m also extremely proud of our modest accomplishments at Now Muzik and Hypertek Digital, it’s the trials and triumphs of creating, birthing and sustaining the Buckwyld ‘n’ Breathless brand that fills me with joy at the moment. Why? Because it is a decade of one of the most challenging projects I’ve taken on in my career so far. Period.  Eko Hotel had completed the ambitious Eko Convention Centre and Cecil Hammond, who had incidentally witnessed Chapter 2, was in the mood to take his already successful Flytime promotion gig to the next level. Buckwyld Media was primed to deliver the concert experience that would change the game for good. 2face Live: Buckwyld ‘n’ Breathless happened and it’s been a tougher job trying to convince me that impossible is something since then. Rave reviews, multiple editions – Lagos (Away & Beyond), London (Away & Beyond), Lagos (The Disruption), Nairobi (Disruption Africa), Lagos (The Lagos Dream), Lagos (Power of 1) – and magic moments by headliners MI, Sauti Sol, Tiwa Savage, Flavour, Phyno, Falz and of course, 2Baba later. Buckwyld ‘n’ Breathless occupies a unique space as the concert experience that offers discerning live music fans more value for their time and money.
 
None of this would be possible without the invaluable contribution of the dream team (past and present) and partners behind the BnB project – Innocent Idibia, Helen Abutu, Osarhiemen Omorogbe, Tony Anifite, Edi Lawani, Kingsley James, Andre Blaze, Ayeni Adekunle Samuel, Ayo Animashaun, Danny Kioupouroglou, Cecil Hammond, Ohimai Atafo, Mike Igbelabo, Bayo Omisore, Hoffmann Akubeze and all our wonderful vendors, consultants, and sponsors. Of course, special mention must be made of all the amazing star talents and the supporting cast of dancers, musicians and extras whose brilliant performances have created the magical moments Buckwyld ‘n’ Breathless is known and loved for. From the depth of my heart, I say thank you and God bless.  