  The Presidential Taskforce (PTF) on COVID-19, of which you are a member, did well with the safety protocol and ensuring that each of 23 airports was safety and security compliant entering into the difficult new-normal era. As it is the hallmark of true leaders to take commendations for achievements and responsibility for bad days, yours cannot be an exception. We have one of such bad days in the local aviation, for which you should take responsibility and brace up for urgent remedial actions.
 
Just last week, I offered to assist an aged neighbour to buy a flight ticket from Lagos to Abuja, where he needed to attend a family emergency. It was tough securing a seat, which is strange for such an erstwhile high-frequency route. When I did, it cost N95, 000! Can you believe that? The old man’s face widened in shock at the outrageous asking price. But when calls from family and friends in Abuja persisted, he grudgingly coughed out the fare. N95, 000 one-way Economy class ticket of less than an hour flight! His words as he departed were: ‘Just like that? What is this country becoming? Yet, we are supposed to have a government at the helm of our affairs?’ The Baba is not alone in this credibility doubt. Some travellers even claimed to have bought the same ticket for between N80, 000 and N100, 000, and they shared similar concerns.
 
As an aviator that superintends over this sector, you should be most bothered. That is about a 200 per cent spike in airfares in less than two weeks. In May, prior to the reopening of the airspace, your PTF colleagues had told Nigerians that there would be no spike in the cost of airfares, pledging to support the sector in a manner that would not push add-on cost to consumers. It was a reasonable motive not to inflict further hardships on Nigerians. But did you advise them to make the promise? To operators in the industry, it was like a line from the usual electioneering campaign booklet.   What has happened to that promise and others like it? In as much as forces of demand and supply would always cause fares to fluctuate in a price deregulated market, such an astronomical spike is not justifiable in an industry that is closely regulated. This is unfair on average Nigerians that have been impoverished by this awful economy and made poorer by the pandemic effects.  Ire o!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .