Organisers of the World Boxing Federation (WBF) featherweight bout between Nigeria’s Ridwan ‘Scorpion’ Oyekola, and Argentina’s Lucas Matias Montesino on December 27, 2020, believe the fight, to be broadcast across the world, will help in developing boxing and other sports in Oyo State in particular and Nigeria in general. Speaking on the fight when he led other members of the committee and the boxer to the office of Oyo State Government House on Tuesday, chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC), Olawale Okuniyi, said it was significant that another world championship is coming to the state 57 years after the Dick Tiger versus Gene Fullmer clash in the ancient city. He added that hosting such a global event in Ibadan under Governor Seyi Makinde would galvanise the sports sector and point the way forward for the youths of the state. According to the LOC chairman, the state has a lot to gain because the world’s attention would be shifted to it, apart from the economic benefits the state would derive from the bout. Also speaking on the fight, the LOC Co-chairman, Rafiu Oladipo, said, “the significance of this match is that if such a thing happened 57 years ago and we are going to have it, here again, I think the governor, government and the people of Oyo state should be happy. “The whole world will be focusing on Ibadan, Oyo State during and after the fight… there will be a lot of financial benefits for the state because people will come from far and near across the world for the bout. “I believe this is a fight that we must all support and I want to plead for the support of the state government and all the people of Oyo State so that our son – Scorpion, can win the title belt.” Speaking on behalf of Governor Makinde, the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Olubamiwo Adeosun, said the present administration “is so committed to the development of sports in the state,” and assured the LOC that government would give the necessary support ensure Oyekola’s success during the bout. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .