Anchor University has partnered with IT training organization, New Horizons to commission a new ultra-tech ICT and e-business centre. Speaking during the commissioning in Lagos, the university’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Joseph Afolayan, said that the university is passionate about raising exceptionally competent graduates who are conscientious global players in their different field of works. He said he was convinced that this partnership and the impact of the quality infrastructure being deployed and commissioned will complement the academic regiments and that Anchor University students will make optimum use of the facility for personal and professional development. The Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer, New Horizons Nigeria, Tim Akano, praised the university management for deeming it fit to partner with New Horizons in order to build a new and higher profiled graduates who are empowered digitally to become the toast of employers globally or successful technopreneurs like the world’s richest Technopreneurs like Mark Zuckeberg, Bill Gates, among others. Akano said the deployment of fourth industrial revolution (4IR) training skill sets like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Analytics, Internet of Things (IoTs), etc under the partnership programme are strategic measures to empower Nigerian graduates to be at par with their more advantaged foreign colleagues as well as ultimately position Nigeria at the front-row of IT-driven nations of the world both structurally and economically. He noted that the project-driven entrepreneurship empowerment approach will serve to stem the loss of promising Nigerian graduates to current situation where many graduates seek to travel abroad to engage in menial and condescending jobs. The Chief Universities Operations Officer, New Horizons Nigeria, Dr. Bolaji Olaoye assured that the computer hardware, software and courseware are original equipment manufacturer (OEMs) standard and every student will be trained and mentored by internationally certified technical instructors. He said the university students will be groomed with the same top level standards which New Horizons has established across the globe. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .