State governors admonished Nigerians to promote peaceful coexistence, support government policies and programmes and comply with the protocols to check the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State urged Nigerians, particularly Christians, to celebrate the Christmas and New Year safely and responsibly so as not to further increase the spread of the COVID-19. Specifically, he called for optimal level of compliance with the coronavirus preventive measures outlined by Inter-Ministerial Committee on COVID-19 and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). In his address to the people of the state yesterday in Akure, Akeredolu enjoined them to correctly and consistently wear facemasks while in the public space,
wash their hands with water and soap or use hand sanitizers, avoid crowds and maintain physical distancing. He reminded the people that “Section 18 of the law stipulates a fine of N20,000 or a jail term of three months or both as penalty for failure to comply with due preventive measures.” Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State called on Christians to use the period to pray for peace, security and prosperity of the state and an end to COVID-19 pandemic. Inuwa, in his goodwill message, charged Christians and the entire residents to rededicate themselves and “remain steadfast in prayers against all the challenges bedevilling the state and humanity in general.” He assured of his administration’s commitment to continue to initiate and execute policies and programmes that will impact on the lives of the citizenry and promote unity and peaceful coexistence in the state. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike urged Christians to promote love, peace and unity. In his Christmas message, Wike said Christian faithful should remain committed to the worthy ideals exemplified by the birth of Jesus Christ as they celebrate. He advised the people of the  state to use the season  to deepen their faith in God who has the solution  to all societal challenges. He assured the people that his administration was working with all security agencies to ensure peaceful celebration of the season. In Kogi State, Governor Yahaya Bello urged Christians to use this special occasion to show love and kindness to one another through sacrificial giving. He admonished Christians to share whatever they have with their neighbours, especially the less privileged ones and internally displaced persons (IDPs) who might not have anything to celebrate with. Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq advised Christian faithful to celebrate with modesty. “We urged residents of the state to observe the festivities in the spirit of the peculiar time. Even as the government and citizens do their bits to flatten the COVID-19 curve, we call on everyone to pray and work for peace, harmony and development of Kwara and the country at large.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .