Chief executive officer and Member, Governing Board, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Adeyoyin Adesina, has called on parents and guardians to expose their wards early to academic competitions that boost their soft skills, noting that such activities put them in a better position to succeed in their work life. Adesina while speaking at the maiden virtual 2020 Corona Schools inter-schools quiz competition held in Lagos said the whole idea of the programme was to instill in the children, the spirit of competition, adding that the earlier students learn to compete, the better. “The whole idea of introducing them to this kind of programme early in life is for them to realise that life is about competition and it is about winning. To win you have to prepare and to win you have to work as a team. So we teach them teamwork very early and also teach how to be gracious in victory, how to handle defeat and disappointment, these are all that make life what it is.” According to her, the fact that different schools emerge winner every year shows the competitive spirit among the five Corona primary schools. “That no school dominates shows the uniformity of standards across our schools”, she said. The chief executive officer explained that the annual competition is part of efforts to ensure that all Corona Schools are set on the same pedestal. She said: ”If you look at the scores on an annual basis, they are always very close, what this shows is that the schools are doing very well. It is the same curriculum, it is the same quality of teaching, and it is the same training that we give the teachers. This shows that the Corona curriculum is definitely working and it is working very well”. Director of Education, Corona Schools’ Trust Council, Mrs Amelia Dafeta, said the idea behind the interschool quiz is to spur pupils out of their comfort zone, do research and get prepared to compete in a healthy manner. Dafeta added that the annual event is another avenue deployed by the council to test quality control across all their schools. Head of School, Corona School, Ikoyi, Mrs Adenike Onafeso, while expressing joy for the feat achieved by her school said the secret behind their success is teamwork and cooperation. Onafeso said she encouraged her pupils to be resilient and have the ‘I can do spirit’ as they compete. While commending the Council for the initiative, the educationist pointed out that Corona School ensures that its pupils fit into the global market. The competition held at Corona School, Victoria Island, witnessed a display of intelligence, composure and skills from pupils, as they answered questions in English Language, Mathematics, Science, mixed basket (mind gene), coding and animation. At the end of the keenly contested exercise, Ikoyi School emerged overall winner; Victoria Island came second; Gbagada School came 3rd while Lekki and Apapa Schools emerged fourth and fifth respectively. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .