 Hope Uzodimma  Leadership vacuum
SHORTLY after the 2019 general election, APC had no state governor in the Southeast. But, on January 14, 2020, luck smiled on the party as it won the governorship election petition against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Chief Emeka Ihedioha, who was returned by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), as winner of the March 9, 2019 gubernatorial poll. 
 
The recent dissolution of state and zonal executives of APC, which followed the earlier sacking of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) by the National Executive Committee (NEC), widened the leadership vacuum, which Uzodimma’s emergence sought to fill. 
 
Not long after the emergence of APC National Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (NCECPC), led by Yobe State governor, Mai Mala Buni, the Southeast representative in the committee, Senator Ken Nnamani, led cabinet members and elected representatives to pay a courtesy visit on Uzodimma at Government House, Owerri. Nnamani’s visit, alongside some ministers and appointees of President Muhammadu Buhari, sparked controversies as some older members of the party, including Uzodimma’s predecessor, Senator Rochas Okorocha and Dr. Chris Ngige, claimed ignorance of the meeting.  Ikeazor stated: “I am strictly following COVID-19 protocols as I do not want to encourage community transmission of the virus by traveling to another state, hence my absence in Owerri. 
 
“Ken Nnamani and Hope Uzodimma conferred with me on the meeting. Being a foundation member of the party, my dream is to see the party grow in the Southeast. The stakeholders have come together to strengthen APC Southeast and I fully support this.”
 
Does the leadership of Uzodimma offer hope of genuine reconciliation and internal cohesion that would guarantee stakeholders strengthening APC in zone, as the minister of state for the environment hinted?
 
That much would be seen by the quality of attendance and the nature of resolutions to be reached. For instance, the presence of such stalwarts as Dr. Ogbonna Onu, Ngige, Okorocha, Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, Geoffrey Onyeama, Osita Okechukwu and Anyim Nyerere, among others, would give positive indicators of the party chieftains’ seriousness to entrench APC in the zone.
 
Following the bourgeoning dichotomy between aboriginal APC and the newcomers, some party chieftains are grumbling that former PDP turncoats were taking over the leadership structure of the party, a situation that dampened Senator Nnamani’s enthusiasm to lead the expected change in the party.  
 
The former President of Senate was accused of being PDP at home and APC abroad, when former Governor Okorocha sought to elevate him as the party’s leader in the Southeast. Again, with Umahi’s entry into APC, some party stalwarts mooted the idea of entrusting the leadership on the Ebonyi State governor, especially against the backdrop of his chairmanship of Southeast Governors’ Forum (SEGF) to which Uzodimma belongs. But former Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) members did not waste time to counter that argument, stressing that unlike Uzodimma, Umahi has not been to the Senate, just as his age in the party does not warrant such early leadership post.  Presidential craving
ANOTHER issue bedeviling APC’s efforts to unite in the Southeast is the presidential ambition of many of the prime movers. Sources disclosed that the modality of Governor Umahi’s dramatic entry into the governing party left the zonal leaders with the impression that his was “a mission sealed in the Presidency.”
 
Although the Ebonyi State chief executive has denied that no bargaining preceded his defection, the perception among the party chieftains is that Umahi was readying to contest the 2023 Presidency or be consoled with a possible presidential running mate opening. 
 
It could not be ascertained whether the presidential ambition precipitated the insistence of some party chieftains that Umahi should not be recognised as leader of the party in the state. However, as the stakeholders meet today, in addition to the Ebonyi governor, other leaders associated with a possible presidential chase include Governor Uzodimma, Senators Okorocha and Kalu, and Dr. Onu. Dr. Ngige has continued to pussyfoot, even as speculations are rife that he would work towards the emergence of a northern candidate unless the lot falls on him. State of the states’ guber chase
A remarkable feature of today’s stakeholders’ meeting would be the retinue of governorship aspirants from Anambra State that plans to use the meeting to orchestrate their ambition.
 
Come November 2021, Anambra would be going to the polls to elect its next governor and, as a party, APC has marked the state alongside Abia and Ebonyi as must-win states to guarantee the zone’s determination to throw up a Southeast presidential standard bearer for the party.
 
In Ebonyi, the situation became very intriguing after Governor Umahi joined the party, where some governorship contenders and aspirants have been mobilising quietly in readiness for the 2023 showdown. It is not known whether, in addition to his rumoured presidential ambition, Umahi would concern himself with pursuing a succession plan to enthrone his preferred candidate. That informed speculations of possible cross-defections by some notable aspirants.
 
So, alongside the party’s 2015 standard bearer, Ucha, the 2015 Labour Party governorship candidate of the state, Dr. Edward Nkwegu, is said to have refrained from contesting the 2019 governorship to prepare for 2023. Also, Umahi’s erstwhile Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Bernard Odoh, who quit and joined APC to prosecute his gubernatorial ambition, is in the reckoning.  
 
While speaking when he hosted his supporters to a Christmas party at his Umuezeokoha country home recently, Prof. Odoh said contrary to insinuations in some quarters that he was on his way out of the party, he remains a strong contender in APC. 
 
The former SSG said after his erstwhile boss joined the party, “it has become necessary to address this issue since speculations have continued to intensify. I am still part of the APC family. I have not defected. I don’t operate in the dark. If I have any reason to do otherwise, I will communicate our people as and when due. But, for now, I am fully deep in APC activities. So there is no reason for our supporters and Ebonyians to panic because there’s no election at the moment.”  FOR Enugu State, despite the setting up of a caretaker committee, headed by Dr. Ben Nwoye, his rival, Deacon Okey Ogbodo, continues to insist that having been properly suspended from the party, the dissolution of the party structures should not override court decisions on the matter. Although APC directed aggrieved party faithful with issues in court to withdraw them, Enugu, like Imo, is still at daggers drawn, legally speaking, over the leadership.
 
In a statement, which Nwoye repudiated, Ogbodo maintained that at a meeting of the Enugu State Executive Committee of APC on Wednesday, December 16, 2020, the indefinite suspension of the former chairman was ratified in line with provisions of Article 21 of the APC constitution.
 
Ogbodo noted that the ratification, which was unanimous, followed adoption of reports of a disciplinary committee, which investigated Nwoye for sundry offences, ranging from anti-party activities to persistent disrespect for party elders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .