Mondia (https://Mondia.com/), a leading mobile technology company specialising in the marketing and distribution of digital content, today announced its second African launch of the ground-breaking time-based entertainment platform Monsooq, in Nigeria. This follows on the heels of the initial launch in South Africa.  Monsooq is the first-of-its kind model which utilises time as the currency. Users pay only for the time they spend consuming content and are not required to take out any contracts or subscriptions. Entertainment anytime anywhere Monsooq’s unique time-based model allows consumers to buy entertainment time just as they would mobile airtime and use that time to consume any content they choose, including movies, sports, educational content, books, series, games and music – all on a single, convenient, end-to-end entertainment platform. New users to https://Monsooq.com/ng will receive 60 minutes complimentary access and a 50% discount on content during the launch, after which pricing is NGN20 per hour. Whether a consumer wishes to play a game for 30 minutes while commuting, or binge a new series for six hours, they are able to load that amount of time to their profile securely using a debit or credit card. And when their time ends, they simply top up with more. Nigeria houses incredible content Dr Amadeo Rahmann, Mondia Group CEO, said: “Africa is the next frontier in regard to digitalisation. Our extensive footprint, increasing customer base and significant experience in the region make Africa a natural choice of focus for us. African markets, especially Nigeria with its large population and growth of digital streaming services, are primed for the democratisation of content. Mondia is firmly focused on changing the way people consume entertainment. We have incredible reach and deep understanding of the geographies in which we operate, with over 1.4 billion potential users in these countries.” Mondia believes that Nigeria is a great local content hub for Africa with its media and entertainment industry, Nollywood, providing world-class content. Nigeria is also currently the second-largest film producer in the world in terms of number of movies [3]. The local industry employs about one million people and generates over US$7 billion for the economy3, and Mondia is excited to help provide another platform for this content. The “new normal” brings new opportunities “COVID-19 has had such a dramatic impact on economies globally, deeply affecting consumers’ disposable income. We believe that the Monsooq model is reflective of the changed financial situation of consumers while bringing much needed entertainment during these difficult times,” concludes Dr Rahmann. Mondia sees exceptional potential in the continent. According to research conducted by PwC South Africa in 2019 [1], entertainment and media (E&M) spend in Nigeria saw a 25.5% rise in E&M revenue in 2017 to US$3.8bn. In December 2019 more Africans (526 million) accessed the internet than North Americans [2]. And there is still massive potential for growth: Africa has a total internet penetration level of just under 40%, as compared to penetration in the rest of the world of 63.2%. While streaming services have proliferated across Africa, there is an increasing need to deliver enhanced value, choice, and innovation in terms of pricing and content. Monsooq also represents a new frontier of content monetisation for entertainment providers, giving them direct access to customers who are not interested in a traditional subscription model. Content is king Monsooq features a world-class recommendation engine to ensure consumers find the content they love. Content will be localised and customised, with a mix of local, regional and international content. Mondia aims to build the content economy and bring value across Africa as Monsooq expands. The platform has partnered with leading regional content providers such as Viva Nation and Wi-flix, as well as well-known international TV channels, sports and games providers, and offers over 20 000 hours of entertainment including, Esport and EPIC ON. In addition, Mondia will also feature their own entertainment services which boast leading games and music titles. Monsooq launched in South Africa (http://bit.ly/3nUHSr4) in November, which incorporates a deal (http://bit.ly/3o0p4XA) with LaLiga as a premium content partner, and now launches in Nigeria, with other markets to follow. To access Monsooq simply click here (http://bit.ly/3aSgzKd). [1] https://www.pwc.co.za/en/press-room/entertainment—media-report-2019.html
[2] internetworldstats.com
[3] https://www.trade.gov Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Mondia. Media Contacts:
Michael Rubenstein
Tel: + 27 82 903 7797
michael@ownalchemy.com Nicolas le Roux
Mondia Group
Tel: + 971 50 557 7541
nicolas.leroux@mondia.com About Mondia:
Mondia (https://Mondia.com/) is a leading technology company specialising in the marketing and distribution of digital content. Mondia has deep insight into where the markets are headed and the role of technology to solve business challenges while enabling the best user experiences. Mondia, through its content-agnostic platforms creates personalised digital experiences for people by providing them with the latest world-class digital content, accessible anywhere and anytime; including health, entertainment, lifestyle, gaming, music and sports. Mondia is well-positioned to enable its enterprise customers to grow their user engagement and maximise their monetisation potential through payment connectivity, customer acquisition and life cycle management services. With 13 locations across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Mondia reaches over 1.4bn end-users across over 60 countries. The company partners with more than 80 telco operators from around the world, over 1,000 content providers and 200 merchants. Mondia services are available in Ethiopia, Nigeria and Pakistan through mondia.cell. For more information please visit: https://Mondia.com/ About Dr Amadeo Rahmann, Mondia CEO: 
Amadeo is a shareholder and Chief Executive Officer at Mondia where he is responsible for providing strategic, financial and operational leadership for the company and senior leadership team. He is a true visionary and prides himself in the establishment of long-standing relationships with key decision makers and influencers. Amadeo is a highly acclaimed, experienced and successful entrepreneur, based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. He has led several multi-million-dollar large-scale projects in cooperation with various internationally renowned companies in multiple sectors across Europe, Middle East & Africa. Leveraging this extensive global network, he continuously seeks opportunities to drive the business forward. He started Mondia in 2002 and continues to lead the company to new heights with the introduction of new products and services as well as business verticals. He is responsible for continued revenue growth and expanded the business to 13 locations across the globe with 250 passionate employees. Amadeo holds a PhD in Languages and Literature from the University of Rome and speaks five languages. He is an avid reader and enjoys keeping fit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .