The Senate yesterday urged the Federal Government to fund the newly established National Commission for Persons with Disabilities (NCPD). The Upper Legislative chamber which made the call through its Committee on Sports, Youth, and Social Development during the screening of nominees for the position of chairman and members of the board of the commission, said adequate funding of the agency would help in the practical activation of inherent abilities in the disabled. Specifically, the Chairman of the Committee, Obinna Ogba (PDP Ebonyi Central), said it was one thing for the government to set up the commission, it was another thing for the commission to be adequately funded to achieve the purpose for which it was set. “We thank the executive for setting up the National Commission for Persons with Disabilities and nominating persons to run it, but putting such intervention mechanism in place without required funding will defeat the purpose for which it was established. “On our own part here in the Senate and, by extension, the National Assembly, having through legislation, facilitated the establishment of the commission, we shall at any given time make a required appropriation for effective and efficient functioning of the commission. “It is a welcome development that appointments of nominees into the commission are being screened four days after the International Day for Persons Living with Disabilities (PLD) was marked on December 3, 2020”, Ogba said. He admonished the screened nominees to remember their co-protesters in the past by carrying them along in the scheme of things. “Mr chairman-designate and the six members, please after confirmation by the Senate this week, remember to use the commission to take care of the interests of the disabled, particularly those who were with you in the trenches during the protests era,” he said. Those screened and designated for confirmation as nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari are Dr Hussaini Suleiman Kangiwa as chairman from North West,  Oparaku Onyejelam Jaja as a member from South East and Philomena Isioma Konwea from South-South as member. Others are Omopariola Busuyi Oluwasola as member from South West, Amina Rahma Audu as member from North West, Esther Andrew Awu as member from North Central, and Abba Audu Ibrahim as member from North East . To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .