 Ooni Ogunwusi Enitan Adeyeye of Ife  From the first to the 50th Ooni, the throne of Oonirisa has remained the symbol of authority and the sacrosanct custodian of the House of Oduduwa: Its rich cultural heritage and traditions. The Ooni of Ife marked the anniversary of his coronation with a pledge to rededicate his throne to the service of God and humanity. The Ooni made the pledge during a Thanksgiving Service at the Central Mosque, Enuwa, Ile-Ife. He acknowledged that Almighty Allah had helped him on the throne especially for the huge success achieved in the five years as the ooni. He also thanked the indigenes of Ife at home and diaspora for the support given so far to move the ancient city progressively. He promised to use resources within his capacity to bring progress to the lives of youth, aged, physically challenged persons, Yoruba people, and the entire Nigeria. In a landmark ceremony, which attracted a host of people, Africans, and non-Africans from all over the world, the fifth anniversary of the ascension of Arole Oduduwa tagged, Journey To 5: the throne of the youths, heralded the coming of age of the Yoruba cultural ascendancy and values. As a father, Oonirisa reiterated the respect for mutual cooperation of all ethnic groups in Nigeria as the panacea to all the challenges facing the country. He also spoke on youth empowerment, saying it is the hallmark of excellence. As a way of bridging the gap between youth development and sustainable leadership, His Imperial Majesty created a platform tagged G 2 G, which will empower 50 youths yearly to the tune of N1 million each for enhancing economic independence and promotion of Africapitalism. At the event, Kabiyesi also exhorted the successful entrepreneurs to be good ambassadors and role models. A film documentary, poetry, panel session, drum ensemble, and comedy also highlighted the classic event featuring, the CEO of Sujimoto, Woli Arole, Seyi Awolowo, Bello Shagari, civil societies, socio-cultural groups, and royal fathers across the country. The anniversary also coincided with the arrival of Prince Adeiwa Eri Ife Ogunwusi. Alli is a legal practitioner and pan-Africanist.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .