Ndume seeks engagement of foreign mercenaries to fight B’Haram The Northern Youth Coalition (NYC) has admonished President Muhammadu Buhari to resign from office before Nigeria becomes another Somalia.Lamenting what it described as the worsening security situation in the country similar to what obtained under former President Goodluck Jonathan, it said, almost every Nigerian believed that Jonathan was not capable of rescuing Nigeria and was voted out of office. In statement issued by its National Convener, Muhammed Ishaq in Abuja yesterday, the group affirmed that insecurity in Nigeria, particularly in the North, has lingered for too long.“As a coalition that represents millions of youths from various parts of the North, we are pained by the insecurity that threatens to consume the North. It is glaring that the security situation in the country is deteriorating and our agony as victims aggravating. “The lingering insecurity is one of the major reasons why we clamoured for change and voted Jonathan out in 2015.“But instead of a permanent solution to the problem, killings and other forms of criminality have been resurfacing under the watch of someone that vowed to be our saviour. “It is almost five years now and Nigeria, from all indications, is either worse than the Jonathan administration or it is not different from the previous government despite the fact that in his first term, President Buhari pledged that his government would bring an end to the national suffering caused by insecurity,” the statement reads. The coalition said the youths have grown weary of excuses, while the lives of the youth are being wasted on a daily and hourly basis, adding, “We cannot continue watching while our region is being turned to ashes and cemetery. “President Buhari has failed to secure the lives and property of Nigerians probably due to lack of political will, commitment or competence and he should therefore, resign to save the country from collapse.” Meanwhile, Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Ali Ndume has urged the Federal Government to immediately engage the services of foreign mercenaries in the fight against insurgency if that would end the Boko Haram crisis. The suggestion to fight Nigeria security challenges with foreign mercenaries was prompted by the high level of killings and destruction of property in the fight against Boko Haram terrorists. Ndume, who spoke on British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) Hausa Service, monitored in Kaduna yesterday, dwelled on the renewed attacks by the terrorists in Borno State and other parts of the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .