Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday said there will be no hiding place for corrupt persons and proceeds of corruption. “My resolve is to ensure that reforms are deepened such that there will be no hiding place for corrupt persons and proceeds of corruption,” Buhari said at the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) in Kaduna state during the Passing Out Parade ceremony of the Detective Inspector Course of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). “My aim is to ensure that no govt financial transaction is done in secret and all are subjected to public scrutiny.” The annual Corruption Perception Index (CPI) by TI released in Berlin in January, ranked Nigeria 146th of the 180 countries. The country, however, was 144th in 2018, indicating a two-point plunge. Buhari had made fighting corruption a focus of his administration since 2015. He is also currently recognised by the African Union (AU) as the continent’s anti-corruption champion. TI’s latest report stated that Nigeria’s score of 26 out of 100 points is below the global average of 43. The president, however, maintained that the objective of his administration was to institute a level of transparency in governance mainly through information technology platforms. Buhari said he is determined that within a short period, citizens would be able to follow core government operations online just as advanced democracies across the world. He said has taken some measures to entrench transparency and accountability in his government. The president said the launch of the Open Treasury Portal, mandating all MDAs to publish daily reports of payments from N5m, monthly budget performance, quarterly financial statements and annual financial statements prepared is in compliance with IPSAS. “Increasing number of Asset Recovery cases successfully initiated by Nigeria in cooperation with other countries under the Mutual Legal Assistance (MLA) framework,” Buhari said. “Nigeria’s active participation in global anti-corruption platforms means that the country is subjecting itself to periodic review of its progress in implementing the articles of conventions thus the fight against corruption,” Buhari said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .