Taking into account the fundamental role sports play in building physical and mental capacity in children, Maltina has unveiled its school games project. The games, aimed at teaching discipline and resilience to enable children to become contributing and responsible leaders in the future, would be focused on secondary school students in public and private schools. Speaking at the event themed, ‘Active kids, Happy kids; The importance of imbibing a sports culture from a young age’, held in Lagos over the weekend, Corporate Affairs Director, Nigeria Breweries Plc, Sade Morgan, noted that schools starting today, can register to be a part of the national competition. She noted that the dearth of sporting facilities have been unfavourable to kids, adding that schools within a cluster could do with shared facilities and new schools mandated to introduce sporting facilities. Morgan called on parents to actively participate in sports with their children to encourage them. According to the president, Nigerian School Sports Federation (NSSF), Olabisi Joseph, a sports facility should be a key factor for parents to decide on a school for their children. “Educationally, every child must go through three domains to have a complete education; cognitive, affective, and psychomotor activities. “The cognitive is what occurs in the classroom, while affective and psychomotor activities are acquired during exposure to sports, which helps build life skills,” she said. She added: “In participating, you make friends, learn team building, achieving set targets, improve health and wellness and stimulate learning.” According to Joseph, the winners would get incentives such as scholarships, laptops, school sporting facilities, among others. The overall winners also get to qualify for world athletics school championship. “Registration would commence from February 3 to 15, after that, each state is expected to have their local government or zonal games within February 17 and 21, to ensure all schools can participate. Winners from this stage proceed to participate at the state level, from February 24 to 28. “Winners from the state level would come to Lagos for the national finals, which would hold from the March 9 to 13 and the grand finale is on March 12,” Joseph explained. Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Shola Aiyepeku said the Lagos State government was of the opinion that an industry could be built from sports. He noted that plans were underway to include sports in primary and secondary schools curriculum by next session, adding there is the need to support athletes once they were signed up to the industry to maximise opportunities available “Parents should encourage their kids who have sporting abilities towards the right path. It is important for proper information to be relayed to parents so they can allow their children to develop their abilities,” Aiyepeku noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .