• Don’t constitute yourself into a court, ex-gov tells the party
• Fayemi approves six months of maternity leave for workers
• NAF, state to partner on proposed agro-allied cargo airport The Ekiti State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday said that it might take former Governor Ayodele Fayose to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) if he fails to account for over N400 million earmarked for the construction of Ado-Akure road in 2014. The APC State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, while addressing newsmen in Ado-Ekiti, said that “the APC would take the former governor to the anti-graft agency if he fails to give a satisfactory explanation about the money.” The party also urged Fayose to explain why he allegedly terminated the reconstruction of the Ekiti portion of the road awarded to a construction company in 2014 without justifiable reason. Ajayi said it was sad that the former governor could make  indicting comment about the road despite knowing that he was allegedly instrumental to its deplorable state, urging him to rather “shut up if he could not explain the whereabouts of the money.” “We are not accusing former Governor Fayose of embezzlement, but he must explain why he terminated Ado- Akure road contract,” he said. In his response, Fayose asked the APC in Ekiti State to refrain from constituting itself into a court of law or EFCC that would be judging people on the issue of alleged corruption. The former governor, through his media aide, Mr. Lere Olayinka, urged the party to petition the EFCC if it has evidence against him. “If they have any evidence that I have committed any financial infraction as governor, they should inform the EFCC “They are coming up with lies that somebody earmarked N400 million. If Fayemi earmarked N400 million, why didn’t he use the money to fix the road? “By now, what have they done? Fayemi is running to two years in office now, what have they done? The roads are there, APC is in government in Ondo State, APC is in government in Ekiti State, they cannot put resources together and make the road passable.” In another development, the Ekiti State Government has approved six months (180 days) maternity leave for female workers in the state public service. According to a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, the decision was in line with the administration’s determination to key into global best practices that would improve the quality of lives of the citizens. He said that the new policy, which takes effect from February 1, 2020, was aimed at improving maternal health and encourage nursing mothers to observe the six months exclusive breast feeding campaign of the United Nations Intervention Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force  (NAF) has affirmed its readiness that it would partner with the Ekiti State Government on the establishment of an International Agro-Allied Cargo Airport in the state. Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, disclosed this while playing host to Governor Fayemi in his office at the NAF Headquarters in Abuja. Abubakar, who expressed delight over the strategic initiative to construct such an airport in Ekiti State, said that the project would not only provide economic opportunities but also boost security in the southwestern part of the country by enhancing the NAF’s air power projection capability. He stated that the NAF already has a presence in Lagos, Oyo and Osun states, adding that Ekiti State to the list would undoubtedly enhance the operations of the Service in the South-West. In his remarks, Fayemi commended the CAS for his astute leadership, which he said, had led to an unprecedented transformation of the Service and resulted in repositioning the NAF for more effective employment of its assets for the protection of Nigeria and Nigerians. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .