Two pupils lost their lives while two others sustained serious injuries after an overhead water tank fell inside their classroom at Royal Kings Foundation Nursery and Primary School, Nkpor-Agu in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State. The pupils were studying in their school when the tank of about 800 gallons capacity filled with water fell from its scaffolding from another compound adjacent to the school. An eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, said the tank fell through the roof of the classroom and landed on the children while their studying was going on. “At about 11:15 am, an overhead Tank filled with water fell into a classroom of Royal Kings Foundation nursery and primary school Nkpor-Agu in Idemili North LGA of Anambra State,” the eyewitness told The Guardian. “Police patrol team led by DPO Ogidi Division CSP Mark Ijarafu rushed to the scene. “On arrival it was discovered that the overhead tank of about 800 gallons capacity filled with water fell from its high stand from a neighbouring house adjacent to the school on the roof of the pre-nursery class and directly into the classroom.” The victims, three boys, and a girl were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, where two of them were confirmed dead. Confirming the incident, police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said that their men had visited the scene of the incident while the Commissioner of Police, John Abang had already commiserated with parents of the victims. He also said that the commissioner of police had ordered a discreet investigation on the incident in order to ascertain circumstances surrounding the mishap. Mohammed said the four children sustained varying degrees of injuries and were rushed to Idemili hospital Nkpor for medical attention. “Unfortunately, two of the children namely, Wisdom Ezewudo ‘m’ aged about 3years and a female pupil of about 2years, whose identity is yet to be ascertained were confirmed dead on arrival by a medical doctor,” Mohammed said. “Two others namely Chimelumeze Obelenwa ‘m’ aged One year seven months and Kosisochukwu Anthony ‘m’ aged One year ten months are responding to treatment.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .