Since the outbreak of the deadly coronavirus in China, there had been a continuous increase in the number of patients infected by the disease that has already been confirmed in Europe, America and other countries in Asia. While the Chinese government is yet to find a cure for coronavirus, a report claims that it plans to kill about 20,000 persons that had been infected by the virus. The claim
The article published by a website ‘ab-tc.com’ aka ‘City News’ said the highest level of court in ‘Chhina’, Supreme People’s Court, is expected to give an approval on Friday for the mass killing of coronavirus patients in China as sure means of controlling the spread of the deadly virus. The website said, “The State tells the court that China is on the verge of losing its health workers to Coronavirus as at least 20 health workers contract the virus daily.” “The State argues that coronavirus patients admitted at hospitals only have their deaths delayed and infect many others while receiving care at the hospital.” “The State mentioned in a document to the court that the country may lose its entire citizens if the few affected patients do not sacrifice their lives to save health workers and a billion others as there is no hope in sight in the fight against the virus,” ‘ab-tc.com’ said in the report. ab-tc.com is the sole source of the report. However, this website provided no evidence to support its claim. The facts
The official website of China’s Supreme People’s Court has no mention of this particular court case claimed in the City News article. Moreover, the Chinese Government ordered the isolation of people infected by the virus at designated hospitals or camps. Moreover, the article attributed to a ‘Local Correspondent’ is without a byline. It is also suspiciously void of specifics. ab-tc only reported that “the state” or “the court” or an “official” made a statement, but did not provide any direct quotes or state names of the sources in the report. The website has a history of publishing fictions and fake news in multiple times. Similar articles of the website fail to proof or present any form of evidence for its claims. The website recently claimed that “six more coronavirus case, total of 16 now” were recorded in Singapore. That claim was debunked by the Singaporean Government. “As of 9pm on 30 Jan 2020, there is no local transmission of the Wuhan virus in Singapore. All confirmed cases in Singapore to date are Chinese nationals who travelled from Wuhan,” Singapore government said in a statement. Moreover, no credible media house around the world has the report that coronavirus victims will be killed. The website does not have identified means authenticating its location from around the world or take feedbacks from readers. The Twitter page attributed to the website is @abtc. It is bearing the name ‘Joy Fisher’. The account is following one person and has just eight followers. It joined Twitter in June 2009. The website was registered in June 2019 with www.wildwestdomains.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .