Former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd) has called for forgiveness over ‘national sins’ and the multifaceted problems confronting Nigeria. The elder statesman made the call in Bauchi during an interdenominational service organised by Nigeria Prays in the North-East zone yesterday. He said Nigerians must pray to overcome the bloodshed, kidnapping, terrorism, banditry, herder-farmer clashes and others, which, he regretted, were giving the country a bad image. At the prayer rally held inside Church of Christ in Nations, the ex-military ruler stated: “Let us now bring before God, our Lord, our true confession and prayer for the repentance for our sins and transgressions on behalf of our nation, the leadership and the country. “We (should) confess our shortcomings, our wrongdoings and all committed against one another, past and present. We (should) bring confession of needless bloodshed, killings and renewed attacks by the dreaded Boko Haram.” Gowon admitted that Nigeria is faced with a myriad of problems, urging prayer to God for solutions. “We bring before God, Nigeria’s numerous challenge of serious security problems in various parts of the country, and be it political, economic or religious and many others,” he beseeched. The Plateau State indigene also prayed over corruption, child molestation, rape and all forms of inhumanity to man, adding that Nigerians must pray for leaders at all levels of government, just as he enjoined the citizens to prioritise unity, love, and peace. The programme was attended by clerics from the six states in the zone – Bauchi, Borno, Adamawa, Gombe, Taraba, and Yobe. Also speaking, the host governor, Bala Mohammed, who corroborated the visitor, described Gowon as the father of the nation who has dedicated his life to building a peaceful Nigeria with humility and prayer. He gave his name as ‘Go On With One Nigeria’ (GOWON), stating that the retired general remains one of the unifying forces among the past leaders. “Nigeria never knew tribal or religious crisis under his watch. For the first time in my life, I remove my cap as respect for the Church,” Mohammed said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .