Lupita Nyong’o and Dencia American-Cameroonian singer Dencia has criticized Kenya actress Lupita Nyong’o over her win at the NAACP image award which took place during the weekend. At the NAACP event, the actress bagged two awards for best actress in the film “US” and outstanding literary work for children for her book Sulwe. The book explores the life experiences of a coloured girl in society. Nyong’o took to her Instagram page to express gratitude for the awards, with respect to her absence during the event. From this laid out written gratitude, Dencia who is the CEO of Whitenicious bleaching cream issued out a comment on Nyong’o’s page claiming she deserves an award for inspiring Nyongo’s book “ Sulwe”.
She wrote; “Looks like Whitencious helped you win an Award.i’m glad Africans like yourself can capitalize off a brand I single-handedly created. Congratulations. It feels great to inspire others to do things they never dreamt of.” The Whitenicious CEO also took to her Instagram story to call out Lupita. She uploaded a video with the caption “where my cut though” showing Lupita in an interview when asked what was the inspiration behind the writing of “Sulwe” and the actress recalled how in 2014, she tendered a speech at Essence Seventh annual Black women in Hollywood. In the speech, Lupita said she was inspired by a young girl who wrote to her through a letter, that she has been thinking of bleaching her skin using Dencia’s Whitenicious but seeing how Lupita loves her black skin, made her realize that it is okay to be black-skinned. Dencia spoke over the video while on play on her story, saying Lupita lied because news from Lupita’s publicist allegedly claimed that the young girl and letter were non-existent. Dencia has since been going all out on Lupita on her twitter page. She claims Lupita tried to drag down her brand. The NAACP Image Awards is an annual award ceremony presented by the U.S based National Association for the Advancement of coloured people. It acknowledges the Artistic and literary outstanding performances film, television, music, and literature. Works that represent and promote the culture of the coloured community.