The Oloja of Epe Kingdom, Oba Kamorudeen Animashaun, has called for a revamp in supporting infrastructure needed to encourage investors and ensure full realisation of the potentials of the Lekki Free Zone. The monarch made the called when he honoured top executives of Rendeavour, developers of Alaro City in the Lekki Free Zone, with chieftaincy titles. He appealed to the federal and state government for the construction of the roads from Lekki to Ijebu-Ode via Epe, linking Ikorodu to Itokin and the road linking Itokin to Ijebu-Ode, stressing that Epe is a centre that links Lagos to other states. He said: “When the Dangote Refinery (also located in the Lekki Free Zone) takes off, there will be a lot of traffic in the area, which will require good road infrastructure. I know there are ongoing efforts by the state government, but we want the federal government to support the state. I also urge both governments to ensure that necessary approvals and assistance are given to investors in Epe.” At the event meant to mark the monarch’s 20th year anniversary, Mr. Frank Mosier, chairman of Rendeavour, was awarded the chieftaincy title of “Amuludun of Epe Kingdom” (one that helps with creating harmony and joy in the land); while Stephen Jennings, founder and CEO of Rendeavour, was awarded the chieftaincy title of “Bobatuluse of Epe Kingdom” (one who works with the king to improve the lot of the community). Speaking after he was conferred with the chieftaincy title, Mosier, a member of the United States President’s Advisory Council on Doing Business in Africa (PAC-DBIA), thanked the monarch for the honour, describing it as a challenge to do more. “When we launched Alaro City one year ago, we promised to deliver investment and jobs to Lagos State and Nigeria; and we will continue to deliver on this. Global, regional and local companies are building facilities in Alaro City, taking advantage of its ideal location for transport and logistics, free zone status, secure land title and high-quality infrastructure. They will also contribute to the creation of thousands of jobs in the near future,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .