The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics (SSANIP) has expressed concern over non-payment of the new minimum wage in the polytechnic sector and payment of arrears arising from the implementation. It, therefore, urged the federal and state governments to begin implementation of it without further delay. The SSANIP also implored the Federal Government to make the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System flexible to accommodate all the peculiarities of the polytechnics. The SSANIP National President, Adebanjo Ogunsipe, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti during the 61st National Executive Council/General Executive Council meeting of the association at the weekend, also sought the establishment of a separate commission for the nation’s polytechnics to be able to address their needs. Ogunsipe expressed hope that IPPIS would save the polytechnic system and workers from salary shortfalls, hence their support for the platform. The SSANIP boss, who described IPPIS as a means of blocking wastages and checking corruption, said that with it, polytechnic workers would no longer have problems of delayed or withheld salaries and allowances. He said: “We call on the Federal Government to address all the peculiarities of the polytechnics and make IPPIS flexible enough to accommodate the present and future peculiarities of the sector. “We are not against government introduction and implementation of the IPPIS because we believe it is a way of blocking wastages and curbing corruption. We are in full support,” Ogunsipe said. He said that under the subsisting platform, “each institution prepares its bill and they release funds from the Accountant-General’s office to the platform, but when they pay, you discover that there are so many of them that have the personnel budget bloated.” “In order to avoid wastages and corruption, if the Federal Government pays directly to individual accounts through IPPIS, issues of not having enough to pay and some allowances withheld will no more be the situation and that will bring about normalcy within the system. “We have registered and our members have been completely captured except those that are on leave and perhaps those who travelled abroad for one reason or the other,” he further said. Ogunsipe said that a separate board was necessary for polytechnics to ensure proper attention as obtained in other tertiary education levels such as universities and colleges of education.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .