The debate over whether a particular section of Nigerians or some personalities do not buy into the agitation of Nigeria being restructured to true federalism or adopt full autonomy and resource control module of governance as a better system to what the current 1999 Constitution offers is no longer an option but a ‘must’ demanding to be addressed now. It has indeed become obvious that the country is tilting towards implosion if those in power continue to overlook the agitation to thinker with the current system of government. This is against the background that almost all the ethnic nationalities that make up the country, except the so-called infamous ‘cabal’, have agreed that the constitution is not only faulty and retrogressive but also unhealthy for the country, whose progress and development it has stunted.
 
Even the erstwhile Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was in control of the Federal Government from 1999 to 2015 but failed to address the subject, has come full circle to realise that Nigeria will not move forward unless the present system is adjusted. Unlike PDP, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which campaigned on the basis restructuring but later jettisoned it after getting into power, has also realised it is an inevitable option whose implementation is long overdue.  According to him: “One of the legacies of military rule was the abolition of powerful and largely financially independent regional governments and replacement with weaker entities known as states. These states were, of course, beholden to a very powerful central government that doled out resources to them and used every opportunity to make it clear that the states were appendages of the centre. “At the time (before military incursion), the regions worked hard, earned their revenues from exports, from taxes, and so on, and kept a large chunk of what they earned. None of them came to Lagos – the then Federal Capital – cap-in-hand for what we now refer to as ‘Federal Allocation’. Every region survived mainly on its internally generated revenue. There was also a healthy competition among the regions.” Sanwo-Olu stressed that the provision of security must be ‘highly’ decentralised, adding that states must play significant roles in providing internal security, while the Federal Government must face the issue of defence, foreign policy, border control, currency, and customs among others. He also called for a review of the terms of fiscal federalism between the centre and state governments, saying that the Federal Government must consciously devolve more responsibilities and resources to states and local governments as those entities are the closest to the people. He said: “Today, the revenue sharing formula is 52.6 per cent for the Federal Government, 26.7 per cent to the states and 20.6 per cent to local governments. The Federal Government takes the lion share, out-muscling the state and local governments, which are the closest tiers to the populace. State and local governments ordinarily should be drivers of development. As it is today, it is common knowledge that most states depend on a monthly allowance from Abuja to survive. “States should be free to control the drilling of oil and mining of solid minerals and pay the required taxes and royalties to the Federation Account. Many states really have no business being poor or suffering a cash-crunch given their huge mineral deposits. There is also no reason why states cannot generate and distribute electricity and license the same, within their geographical limits. This can be done in a way in which necessary returns will be made to the Federal Government.” He, however, urged that no one should lose hope of a better future, observing that the ongoing revolution in the agricultural sector and investment in infrastructure by the Buhari administration had started to gradually change the outlook of the national economy. The Lagos governor said ongoing reforms in agriculture must continue to sustain non-oil revenue and reduce dependency on a single commodity economy.
 
Keynote speaker, Chief George, faulted the current system of an over-powerful centre, which, according to him, is holding everyone down to stagnation and gradually withering initiatives for development and growth. He also faulted the current centralised policing system, saying the new security initiatives in the Southwest codenamed Operation Amotekun, the north’s outfit known as Shege Faka Sai and all the sundry security outfits emanating from the South-South and the South-East are necessary complimentary community policing agencies to enhance the effectiveness of the federal organ. He noted that there should not have been a need for them if states were constitutionally empowered to run their own policing systems as the Senator Ike Ekweremadu’s stalled Bill  He said other smaller countries do not rely on central policing to tackle their insecurity challenges, as those charged with the responsibility of the safety of lives and properties are localised.
 
However, while Shehu appealed to Nigerians to look at crime as it is, he disagreed with the idea of associating a particular crime to ethnic groups. But a Chief Tola Adeniyi, a widely travelled renowned journalist said the incumbent Federal Government could build Ruga in the 36 states of the federation on the condition that each settlement would be manned and dominated by indigenes of those areas. 
 
Meanwhile, Nigerians are set to engage the Senator Ovie Omo-Agege Constitution Review Committee set up by the Senate recently while the ruling party itself may forward the report of the Governor Nasir El-Rufai on restructuring to the commitee as part of the ongoing efforts to thinker with the current system. It now remains how sincere the ruling party is to the agenda but what is certain is restructuring has become an inevitable project for the country. And it is better done in peace rather than through violence.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .