 Chelsea’s English striker Tammy Abraham (L) vies with Bayern Munich’s German defender Jerome Boateng during the UEFA Champion’s League round of 16 first leg football match between Chelsea and Bayern Munich at Stamford Bridge in London on February 25, 2020. (Photo by Glyn KIRK / AFP)  The 22-year-old limped away from Chelsea’s warm-down after the London club’s chastening 3-0 loss at home to German giants Bayern Munich in the Champions League on Tuesday. Abraham managed to play through the pain in Chelsea’s 2-2 draw at Leicester on February 1 but it now appears he failed to recover fully and may have exacerbated his original injury. “For Tammy it’s the same — we are trying to find a solution. It’s obviously frustrating that he comes in and out somewhat, but he’s injured,” Lampard said Friday. The Chelsea boss said he was uncertain as to how long Abraham would be sidelined on this occasion. “I don’t know, we need to see,” he said. “I speak to the doctors every day about it but we are not actually clear on that one. “At the minute he’s not doing anything active for the next couple of days, so I don’t know. And I don’t know how long that will be.” Christian Pulisic, N’Golo Kante and Callum Hudson-Odoi will all miss Chelsea’s match away to Premier League strugglers Bournemouth on Saturday with ongoing injury problems. But midfielder Ruben Loftus-Cheek could make his first appearance this season — and first for the Blues under Lampard – following Achilles surgery. “It would mean a lot to him and me for him to get some time on the field now,” explained Lampard. “It’s a lonely place, it’s a long time. “He was in a very good run of form last year. He was playing really well and getting confidence. And he hasn’t kicked a ball for me. “With the ability, he has got, I think he’s one of the most exciting English midfield and Premier League players, so we all want him back, and him more than anyone.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .