The family of a trader killed by a reckless driver inside his shop along Ogunlana road by Cele roundabout area of Lagos State has cried for help and justice. Brother-in-law of the deceased, Mr. Emeka Chukwujeme, lamented that the driver and his boss are not forthcoming with respect to the burial of the deceased who left behind a housewife and two kids. 
   
It was gathered that the victim, Ekenedilichukwu Nwagu Aloy, was in his shop at Cele roundabout in the morning of January 29, when a wine-coloured Mercedes Benz ML320 SUV with registration number LSD-680-BR lost control, ram into his shop and crushed him to death. Aloy was immediately rushed to a hospital where doctors confirmed him dead on arrival. According to a medical report by the hospital, a car was said to have hit the victim in his shop and killed him instantly. 
   
“When he was brought out of the rubble 30 minutes after the incident, there was no respiratory movement, no pulse, no cardiac activity, the pupils fixed were dilated and unresponsive to light reflexer and was therefore certified dead on arrival,” the report noted.     
   
The unidentified car owner, it was gathered is yet to show up as at press time to the family of the deceased. “He rather sent his wife, who is not capable of doing or saying anything tangible to address the plight of the deceased family,” the family said.
   
Meanwhile, the police have arrested the driver, Mr. Okina George, aged 25 of No. 8, Arowosere Street, off Ashimowo Bakare road, Itire, and slammed him with a three-count charge of driving in public highway in a manner which was dangerous to the public without regard to other road users, knocking down and causing the victim’s death.
   
According to the court papers, the offence is punishable under section 29(1) of road traffic Act and section 45 Cap 124 law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2012. George was also accused of failing to produce his certificate of insurance, which is an offence punishable under section 17 of Road Traffic Act and under section 17 Cap 126 Law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2012. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .