The monumental growth of 446 per cent in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) recorded in South Africa in 2018, and the single-digit growth of seven per cent by Egypt is a reflection of investors’ confidence in both economies given their level of industrialisation coupled with their favourable operating environments.
  
Similarly, Ghana overtook the oil-rich African nation as the largest recipient of FDI in the region despite Nigeria posting a gross domestic product (GDP) that was about eight times the ‘Black Stars’.
     
FDI is an integral part of an open and effective economic system and a major catalyst for development. Yet, the benefits of FDI do not accrue automatically and evenly across countries, sectors and local communities.  “These are enablers; nobody wants to invest in a country where security is a challenge, because that can hamper the future of such investment. “Again, infrastructure determines to a very large extent cost of operation. It also determines how profitable and viable an investment would perform in a given environment. So where infrastructure is either in a state of decay, it increases cost of production, affects competitiveness and also adds a lot of hassles to business operations. “FDI is physical, they come not just to invest, liquidate and go, they come to invest and stay so there is long term capital importation into the country.” According to him, for any investor to decide to invest in Nigeria in the face of so many competing environments today, the investor must be sure that there is a light at the end of the tunnel. He argued that capital importation exists where the environment is conducive enough to generate returns on investment comparable to what is obtainable in other climes. “We have been in a state of decay for so long. Government should intensify efforts especially in the areas of insecurity and provision of electricity these affect the cost of operation which ultimately is passed on to the consumers,” he said.  “Foreign portfolio investors are looking for environmentally-secured economies with relevant infrastructure to aid business development. Nigeria is competing with every economy in the world; if we tackle the issues of insecurity and infrastructure and get it right, FDI will flow,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .