The Imo Concerned Citizens (ICC), yesterday protest against Supreme Court’s removal of Emeka Ihedioha as governor through a judgment of January 14, 2020. Consequently, efforts by a group of youths loyal Governor Hope Uzodinma, to truncate the protest failed following the timely intervention of security officers. Speaking, some leaders of the ICC and other stakeholders including Charles Oputa (aka Charlie Boy), Emeka Nwokeke (Iroko) and Kingsley Onwubuiko insisted that no amount of intimidation or threats would stop them from exercising their rights of peaceful protest. Charlie Boy, who is son of the late Supreme Court Justice, Chukwudifu Oputa, described the judgment as a miscarriage of justice and mistake on the part of the Supreme Court justices. Citing his late father’s stance on issues of justice in the country, he urged the apex court to revisit and reverse the judgment, saying, “There is so much injustice going on in Nigeria. “I know that part of government’s responsibility is to protect the citizens but what we are seeing is a systematic endemic injustice. Today, we are protesting against the injustice done to Imo people by the recent Supreme Court judgment. We will stand together to fight this injustice. This protest is not about a person but for the good of Imo. So, we are appealing that the Supreme Court should review the judgment and reverse it in the overall interest of the Imo people, the judiciary and the nation at large. On his part, Nwokeke said, “Nothing can deter us. No intimidation or coercion will dissuade us because we are resolved on this protest and we will continue to protest until justice is obtained.” The protesters, numbering over 2000 marched through Mbaise Road, Owerri, carrying placards with inscriptions as, Imo People Want Ihedioha Back, We Voted For Ihedioha, Ihedioha Is The Imo Governor We Know and Supreme Court, Please Give Us Justice, among others. The protest came barely few days after Uzodinma directed that all forms of protest capable of inciting the people of the state should stop.But in a swift reaction, the Imo chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) insisted that neither Uzodinma, nor his government could stop peaceful protests in the state, stressing that it was the people’s right to protest in the country. Meanwhile, the Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has charged the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Mohammed Tanko to set up a fresh panel to review the Supreme Court judgement on the Imo State gubernatorial election.Its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, alleged that the same panel that gave the judgement was being selected to review the ruling it earlier delivered, insisting that Nigerians should not allow the same panel to review the case.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .