 Founder, Heart of Gold Children Hospice, Laja Adedoyin (middle) with executive members of AHOSA during the donation  Formed into a web of support network for the society, their alma mater and themselves, Ansar – Ud -Deen High School Old Students’ Association (AHOSA), Falolu Road, Surulere, Lagos, recently made donations of pediatric and other items to Hearts Of Gold Children’s Hospice, an orphanage home in Surulere, Lagos, as a way of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). These donations were made in commemoration of their 2019 Reunion Party held in the School premises recently.According to AHOSA President, Rafiu Williams, the aim was to improve the situation of the home. “Aside ensuring the development of our alma mater, we make it a CSR to improve the school’s immediate environment. In the last 12-months, we have all worked hard for the betterment of AHOSA. For 2020 agenda, we have set out 10-year strategic plan for the regeneration of our great school, and the implementation of the KPMG report to reposition the Association and make it more effective in meeting expectations of all stakeholders”. Chairman, Strategic Committee AHOSA, Aliyu Gafaar of 75/80 set said: “My office was set up by the Alumni Association for the required 10-year strategic plan. We felt that there is need to have a road map for the school in order to ensure that the school has enough physical and financial resources to perform it’s obligations to students in the school. So the committee met with the school authorities to discuss the plan and for them to tell us the challenges that they have in the school and how we could help them resolve some of the issues. We also had interface with the Lagos state government. We then came up with a strategic report that states that we would need N300Million for the 10-year strategic plan to develop the physical infrastructures in the school. And we’re going to raise the money amongst ourselves. We are going to remodel the buildings. The classrooms are obviously too small for about 60-100 students per class, which is what we have now in the classes, hereby making it difficult for the teachers to properly teach the class. When you have 100 students in your class, it is practically impossible to teach effectively, hence the need to have additional infrastructures for the students” he said. Gafaar further said: “At the moment, all the buildings are dilapidated making it a huge project and this is why we divided our plans into short term, medium tern and long term. Also, we recently had a meeting with the secretary of the state government about getting additional teachers for the school. We submitted our strategy documentation to the secretary of the state government and also showed them the recent development we have made in the school” he noted. Chairman, Planning and Organising committee AHOSA, Olatunji sheriff who belongs to the 77/88 set said: “The reunion party of about 22 functioning sets is channeled towards bringing members of the association home and abroad together yearly in order to reunite, celebrate and network among ourselves. Basically, our strategic vision as an association is to give back to the school by engaging in community services. Also, add value to the members of the association in terms of general empowerment” he enthused. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .