The Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) has stressed the need for continuous professional development to enable members’ contribute effectively to the nation’s growth. Speaking at a leadership retreat for the National Executive Committee of the institute in Abuja, President of the institute, Mohammed Abba Tor noted that NIQS is being repositioned to entrench due process and corporate governance. He urged NEC members to settle down and hit the ground running, imbibe team spirit and collaborative culture in discharging their responsibilities. The president noted that his tenure would witness a lot of changes in methodology, approach, processes, and procedure in managing the affairs of the institute, adding that changes if carefully managed, guided and nurtured can lead to new opportunities for members and the profession generally. Tor observed that the society expects so much from the institute and called on members to contribute their quota to the sustainable development of the quantity surveying profession. He said, “Our tenure is unique, as the institute commenced the second 50 years. Our members and the society at large expect so much from us. Corporate governance, on the other hand, is expected to enhance our performance as NEC and the institute generally as well as enhance long-term prosperity for the profession among others”. Speaking to the NEC members on corporate governance and change management, Mr. Henry Akpan of Media Range Limited, noted that corporate governance structure of the institute must be functional to ensure enhanced performance, better standards, increased reputation, trust and must regulate itself. He pointed out that good corporate governance structure would help ensure transparency, accountability, enhanced performance, achievement of set objectives, good resource utilization and reduction of wastages. Akpan observed that the NIOS has set objectives and if at the end of the day, the institution fails to achieve the goals, it means that something is not working. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .