Six persons, including a herbalist, have been arrested by the Ogun State police command for their alleged involvement in a robbery incident that occurred in Abeokuta on January 21. A member of the gang was also shot when they attacked operatives to prevent being arrested. The police identified the arrested culprits as: Tosin Adebanjo, Toheeb Ogundare, Emmanuel Ogunshina, Sunkanmi Ogundimu (the herbalist), Adebisi Remilekun and Ahmed Oloyede. A statement by Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, yesterday said the suspects were nabbed in the early hours of Tuesday over the robbery attack at 1, Akorede estate at Olomoore behind Crescent University Abeokuta. The six suspects had invaded their victims’ house at midnight with machetes, inflicting injuries on Alfa Rifhat Ashraf. They were said to have made away with five mobile phones, one laptop, a cash of N60,000 and other valuables belonging to Ashraf and his wife. According to Oyeyemi, the DPO of Lafenwa Police Station, CSP Muraina Ayilara, following the order of the state Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, swung into action and arrested a member of the gang, who led the police to the to the residence of a herbalist.
It was gathered that the suspects were met at the herbalist’s house, which Oyeyemi said was their hideout. “The arrested gang member led the operatives to the house of an herbalist at Olomoore area of Abeokuta which serves as hideout to the gang. On getting there, the place was cordoned off; but surprisingly, the hoodlums attacked the police with cutlass, consequent upon which one of them was shot, and five others arrested, along with the herbalist. “Recovered from them were: One laptop, five different types of handsets, one cutlass and charms. ”The police spokesperson said, the gang leader, popularly known as ‘’AK” escaped; adding that a serious manhunt has been launched to effect his arrest.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .