 [FILES] Poor installations and construction had killed over 366 Nigerians due to electrocution in 2017, as human-induced factors reportedly killed another 42 persons in 38 fatal accidents caused by faulty systems. Photo: PEXELS  Speaking at the launch of a new Nigerian Electrical Installations and Construction Guidelines Manual for the distribution sub-sector, designed by Nigerian Electricity Management Services Agency (NEMSA), Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, who decried the development, insisted that offenders would be prosecuted to sanitise the industry and ensure the safety of lives and property. Poor installations and construction had killed over 366 Nigerians due to electrocution in 2017, as human-induced factors reportedly killed another 42 persons in 38 fatal accidents caused by faulty systems in the electricity distribution arm of the power sector in the first five months of 2018. Also recently, two Christians were electrocuted during a Church service at Egbeda in Osun State, while a middle-aged man identified as Nduka Emeziagbala died at Enugwu-Agidi in Anambra State from electrocution last year. Mamman, who was represented by the Minister of State for Power, Goddy Judy-Agba, praised the new guidelines, insisting that operators must comply with the regulations to avert imminent challenges in the sector. Managing Director of NEMSA, charged with the responsibility ensuring efficient, stable, safe and reliable networks for electricity supply across the country, Peter Ewesor, said the guidelines would harmonise specifications, standards, and designs. The distribution companies at the event said they would comply with the guidelines. Managing Director of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC), Funke Osibodu, said the utility companies would cooperate with the Federal Government in enforcing the regulations. Meanwhile, stakeholders from Taraba State converged on Abuja yesterday to discuss the way forward for the realisation of the Mambilla Hydropower Dam. Governor Darius Ishaku pointed out that necessary steps have been taken, including securing funds to facilitate the project, saying the meeting was to demonstrate the state’s readiness to support initiatives of the Ministry of Power in ensuring that the project was completed as planned. He said he was impressed with the Federal Government’s determination in realising the project, adding that the appointment of a Minister of Power from the state was a move towards bringing the project to fruition.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .