Paigey Miller – Image: Instagram/mindlessdiaper A 25-year-old woman in the United States lives her life as a fulltime baby, wearing a diaper, playing with toys and sleeping in a crib. Paigey Miller who belongs to a fetish community – adult baby diaper lovers – known as ABDL spends around £250 (₦117,293) a month on nappies to maintain her lifestyle as a full-time baby. Miller wakes up every morning in a crib. After her morning diaper change, she spends her time playing with toys in her nursery and creating online content for the ABDL community. According to The Mirror UK, Miller has been living this way since May 2018 and wants to normalise the lifestyle for others. She has set up her own subscription service and has 426 paid subscribers who send her the money she needs to live as a baby. Being a full-time baby means it’s something Miller does both publically and privately. Miller isn’t deterred by negativity from those that don’t understand her lifestyle – despite constantly being questioned about her intelligence. “I’ve always collected toys and had a younger sense of humour, so all of my friends and family have been very accepting,” Miller said. “If you act like it’s not a big deal, people will take your nonchalance in their stride.” When she turned 18, Miller started searching the web to see if there were other people like her and she ended up finding a whole community. Miller adds that she still has to do normal adult things like paying bills on top of the responsibility of being in the ABDL community. She is also engaged to her partner of five years. Miller explains that he’s not part of ABDL but supports her lifestyle. Paigey Miller says her YouTube channel and website have helped others feel less alone in their fetish. “One of the most prominent feelings people have is shame so I decided to go public. I made a YouTube channel. I made a website. It’s all about how to live your best adult baby life. “We like to play with toys. We’re brought joy by the things we did as little kids. I collect Polly Pocket and Barbies. I like to play with my stuffed animals.” But the job comes with some hate. She adds: “I get a lot of people questioning my intelligence. They ask why a normal intelligent person would live this way. “I don’t respond to negativity. It doesn’t warrant a response. Lines of consent are really important to me. In my daily life, I don’t push my lifestyle on anybody else.”