Political developments in the days following the Supreme Court judgment on the March 9, 2019, gubernatorial poll in Sokoto State have continued to mirror the stiff contest between the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its rival All Progressives Congress (APC).
  
Between 1999 and 2019, Sokoto State, popularly called the Seat of the Caliphate, has belonged to the governing party and opposition in an undulating fashion. Incidentally, some of the current major political combatants happened to be divided along the party lines.
  
While last year’s governorship poll between Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of PDP and APC’s Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto was seen from the prism of APC versus PDP rivalry, it was taken by ‘Sakwato’ indigenes as a final showdown between former governor Alhaji Attahiru Dalhatu Bafarawa and Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko for who becomes the ultimate political godfather of the state.  Echoes of Supreme Court’s ruling
THE Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) returned Governor Tambuwal as the winner of the governorship election, but APC and its candidate, Ahmed Aliyu, rejected the result, alleging that the poll figures were inflated in favour of the PDP candidate. Based on the anxieties over the likely implications of the Supreme Court’s final ruling on the governorship election, the Sokoto State Police Command decided to deploy close to 1,000 officers across the state.
  
Ibrahim Kaoje, the state’s Commissioner of Police, explained that his command took that step to ensure that “peace reigned before and after the hearing,” noting that the approach paid off. Apart from the massive deployment of secret and conventional security officials, the Supreme Court added to the suspense when after hearing the appeal on January 14, deferred its ruling to January 20, 2020.  IN 1999 Bafarawa dragged Wamakko from the civil service to join him on the All Peoples Party (APP’s) governorship ticket, which he won as running mate. Although Wamakko continued in that position as deputy governor after Bafarawa won his re-election in 2003, they parted ways shortly before the 2007 polls.
  
Following allegations of misappropriation and sundry inappropriate transactions, the deputy governor resigned to avoid imminent impeachment and crossed over to the then opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).  Bigger to better
WITH the Supreme Court’s final pronouncement of Governor Tambuwal’s electoral triumph, PDP has regained dominance of Sokoto State, just as the victorious ruling has set the stage for the routing of APC in the state. Although the Senator representing Sokoto North, Wamakko, also had his election affirmed, his pending corruption case with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the gubernatorial election loss by his protégé, Aliyu, have combined to diminish his grounding in the Seat of the Caliphate.
  
Bafarawa has indicated that he was done with participation in electoral contests, stressing that he would invest his energies to grooming future leaders both in Sokoto State and beyond. It was perhaps as a result of his positive agenda and synergy with Governor Tambuwal that Sokoto State PDP continued its winning streak during the recent re-run elections in Sokoto North/Sokoto South and Isa/Sabon-Birni Federal Constituencies of the state. In the re-run polls, which were contested among 38 and 21 candidates respectively, PDP’s Abubakar Abdullahi beat APC’s Bala Hassan, who was earlier returned by INEC by 68,985 to 42,433 valid votes to win the Sokoto North/Sokoto South House of Representatives’ seat.
  
Also, the PDP candidate for Isa/Sabon-Birni House of Representatives seat, Sa’idu Bargaja, polled 44,490 votes to beat Sani Aminu-Isa of APC, who scored 41,048 votes. The victories came just as the state governor, Tambuwal, succeeded the outgoing governor of Bayelsa State, Henry Seriake Dickson, as the chairman of PDP Governors’ Forum.
  
With Tambuwal’s emergence as PDPGF chairman and the strong support from Bafarawa, it is left to be seen how far Senator Wamakko and the APC would fare in the days ahead, especially given that President Muhammadu Buhari would no longer be on the ballot in subsequent polls.
  
There is no doubt that the next battle between the two warring political camps would be the search for Tambuwal’s successor. Distracted by EFCC, Senator Wamakko might shift his support from Alhaji Ahmed Aliu Sokoto to another candidate in line with the zoning arrangement. That approach would most likely divide Wamakko’s camp as the chubby-faced 2019 APC gubernatorial candidate and his supporters would be unsettled by such a decision. The split in APC might then swell the fold of PDP in the state.
  
Governor Tambuwal alluded to this possibility in his remarks shortly after his unanimous selection as chairman of PDP Governors, when he stated: “We want to assure the chairman (Prince Uche Secondus) that in the forthcoming congresses, we are going to give you all the support that you require as your governors. We should use them to further deepen democracy by being transparent so that we cannot fail to win more members and build a more virile party.”
  
Would Bafarawa’s support for Governor Tambuwal pave the way for the eventual political retirement of Senator Wamakko from Sokoto State politics? Whatever happens, for now, the former Sokoto State governor and founder of DPP has succeeded in gifting Tambuwal a safe and strong political base to fly as high as his dreams could carry him in Nigerian politics. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .