The Bayelsa chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has appealed to its members to remain peaceful, calm and accept the judgment of the Supreme Court that nullified electoral victory of Chief David Lyon at the November 16, 2019 governorship election in the state. Addressing newsmen yesterday in Yenagoa, the state party chairman, Jothan Amos, said Lyon and APC appreciated the overwhelming support and confidence reposed in them by the people. Tension had enveloped Yenagoa and neighboring communities after the Wednesday’s verdict of the apex court that finally nailed the hope of returning Lyon as the state governor. There were fears that the youths and party supporters would make good their promise of unleashing mayhem if the February 13,2020 ruling was not upturned.But Amos said, “despite how painful the judgment was, party members and the people of the state should accept it in good faith, remain calm and maintain the peace.”He went on: “Let me use this opportunity to extend warm greetings from Chief David Lyon and the headship of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Let me also thank all Bayelsans of voting age who sacrificed in their numbers to turn out to vote on the November 16, 2019. “We are indeed specially honoured and humbled to have over three hundred and forty thousand (340,000) votes. That to us, demonstrated the change matrix we all yearn and desire. “You may recall that on February 13, 2020, the Supreme Court disqualified the APC ticket and ordered for immediate swearing in of Senator Douye Diri and Senator Lawrence Ewhrujakpor as governor and deputy governor. The news led to pockets of violence across the state which Chief David Lyon had condemned earlier.”He added: “The party not satisfied with the decision made an appeal to the same apex court for a review. On February 26, 2020, the Supreme Court expressed its audacity of finality by upholding her earlier judgment. “Therefore, let me thank all party faithful and Bayelsans for their support, prayers, encouragement and sacrifice in the course of the campaigns through to the election and even to this present moment.“Let me also encourage all party faithful and Bayelsans in general to accept the decision of the Supreme Court in good faith and ensue peace and love.”“As a party, we must unite to uphold peace to leverage the love extended to us by Bayelsans as clearly demonstrated on November 16, 2019.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .