Ifeanyi Udeze. PHOTO: BRILA/ YouTube Former Super Eagles defender, Ifeanyi Udeze has restated his call for the Nigeria Football Federation and the League Management Company (LMC) to fashion out a programme that would develop the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Speaking with The Guardian at the weekend, Udeze said investing in the NPFL would bring out the best in domestic players, which would in turn attract foreign clubs to sign lucrative contracts with the players. He noted that when a foreign club signs a deal with a domestic player, the NFF would also benefit in the process through issuing international transfer certificates as a part of documentation process to enable the player play outside the country. Udeze also said the financial transactions involved in the certificate could attract more revenue to the federation. The ex Bendel Insurance of Benin defender advised the NFF to look inwards and see how they could collaborate with the LMC and club managements to attract investors to the Nigeria League, adding that the league have potential to yield enough financial gains if well managed and coordinated. He also posited that more emphasis should be put on promoting outstanding Nigerian players in the league. “I  am not happy that the NFF is only interested in making the Super Eagles a big brand in world football without paying keen interest in the NPFL. “One thing NFF needs to understand is that when foreign clubs keep showing interest in Nigerian players, they will benefit more with the fees the foreign clubs pay to the federation and also the domestic clubs when clearing the player to play abroad. “I see no reason why NFF will not focus more on upgrading the standard of the NPFL with the LMC. “The Nigerian league has the capacity to generate attractive revenue for the federation. That is why I advise the NFF and the LMC to woo foreign and domestic companies to sponsor the league. “The NFF should also work hard to ensure NPFL is a big brand in the world,” he said  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .