Oyetola Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola has urged citizens of the state to explore peaceful means in resolving their differences, to sustain the state’s peaceful status. He said the people would achieve peaceful coexistence better if they seek justice on contentious issues through judicial procedures. Speaking yesterday while inaugurating the chairmen and members of the new rent tribunals at the Multipurpose Hall of the Local Government Service Commission, Government Secretariat, Abere, Osogbo. The governor had earlier approved the appointment of chairmen and members of tribunals for all the nine federal constituencies in the state last month. The appointment is in accordance with the Residential Accommodation (Rent Control) Law Cap. 144‎ Laws of Osun, 2002, Section 5(1)(a) and (b). Oyetola said inauguration of members of the tribunals would be more imperative to enhance communal peace and dispensation of justice in landlord/tenant-related disputes. He was optimistic that existence of the tribunals would promote peace and amicable resolution of rent-related issues by parties. The governor urged the chairmen and members of the tribunals to discharge their duties with utmost responsibility, diligence, competence and trust. “Peace is a product of mutual respect and justice, while conflict arises from disrespect and injustice against one person or group. “I would therefore implore landlords and tenants to engage in mutual respect and honour the tenets of their contract, resolve misunderstandings amicably and live together in peace. “However, in the few cases where amicable settlement is not achievable, aggrieved parties should approach the Rent Tribunals and avoid self-help, as every society is governed by law,” said he. According to the governor, the rent control law of Osun is the regulator of rent matters in the state. “As critical players in the rent business, both the landlord and the tenant must acquaint themselves with the law and abide by its requirements in the interest of peace. “As responsible citizens, we must realise that our conduct has implication for the ranking of Osun as the most peaceful state in Nigeria – for good or for ill. We must therefore strive to promote the peace and good image of the state.” Earlier in his welcome address, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Olufemi Akande, had urged the appointees to discharge their duties with all sense of loyalty, honesty and fairness. “You must refuse the temptation to be induced. You must realise that your appointment is meant to write history. You must do justice to any issue brought to you and discharge your duties with all sense of commitment, loyalty, honesty and fairness,” he added. Speaking on behalf of the newly-inaugurated chairmen and members of the tribunal, the tribunal chairman from Ila federal constituency, Mr. Segun Durotolu, assured the governor that members would adhere to the rule of law by making fairness, equity and justice cardinal in discharging their duties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .