• Concessionaire accuses unions of contempt, vandalism
• It is our way of telling them to leave, says unions Ousted concessionaire of the Lagos Airport access gate toll plaza, I-Cube Imaging West Africa Limited, has instituted a lawsuit against the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), over breach of agreement and forceful takeover of the facility. Following the hijack of toll collection by a coalition of aviation unions early this month, FAAN had written to I-Cube that the move was a “temporary measure” to ascertain the actual revenue of the plaza – a clause not known to the actual agreement, says I-Cube. While the case is still in court, I-Cube, yesterday, alleged continued vandalism of its nearby properties and threat to lives of officials by union members in breach of court orders on status quo. A coalition of Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN), and Association of Nigeria Aviation Professionals (ANAP), on February 4, took over the toll plaza citing the expiration of I-Cube’s five-year contract since February 2019. Solicitor to I-Cube, Charles Ebhoman, explained that although the contract expired in 2019, his client had sought renewal in accordance to agreement, but FAAN never replied. Ebhoman said while the case was already in court for redress, the workers of FAAN allegedly went into the premises of the company to vandalise its electricity cables, gadgets and water over the weekend. He noted that the court in a suite No: FHC/L/CS/2364/2019 on February 18, 2020, ordered that all parties remain status-quo ante bellem, pending the hearing of the application on February 28.
Ebhoman described the attitude of the workers as unfortunate, adding that the agency of government that preaches the rule of law should not be a party to thuggery and vandalism. He said: “They have joined issues with us. All the issues are in the court but it is unfortunate that they decided to embark on this by taking laws into their hands.” He observed that I-Cube was remitting N68million to FAAN on a monthly basis, even when the Authority refused to respond to the letter written to it three months before the expiration of the contract in February 2019. The Head of Strategy, I-Cube, Tunji Olaosun, confirmed the allegation that some staff of FAAN came into the premises of the company with hand saw to cut-off the water system and electrical cables. Reacting to the allegation, the General Secretary of ANAP, Abdulrazaq Saidu, did not deny the allegation, saying FAAN management had served I-Cube a letter to vacate the premises. “They cannot continue to use power and other facilities when they have told them to vacate the place. FAAN owns the gate and the workers took back their job when agreement was due since February 2019. “On the court case, I-Cube was taken to court by another company, and FAAN is also a defender. I-Cube has no justification to report to Police when they are not supposed to be there. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .