 Managing Director of the Fund, Adebayo Somefun. Photo; TWITTER/NECADOTORG  Plans are underway by the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), to partner the National Assembly for the amendment of the Employees Compensation Act 2010, to include the power to prosecute establishments that fail to join the Employees’ Compensation Scheme (ECS).
    
The Managing Director of the Fund, Adebayo Somefun, who disclosed this in Abuja at the weekend, explained that the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, would soon lead the board and management of the scheme on a nationwide advocacy visit to state governors on the need for them to join the Scheme.  That is why the Minister is personally leading advocacy visits to state governors in trying to get them to key into the Scheme. The Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel, has pledged the readiness of the state to join the scheme. The details of the partnership would be unveiled very soon. This comes as more states are getting ready to join.” He further explained that NSITF, in conjunction with critical stakeholders that include Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), and Trade Union Congress TUC), pays the high premium on prevention of workplace disabilities and the enforcement of Occupational Safety and Health Standards in the workplace.
     
“The present management believes that it is better to prevent occupational accidents than for somebody to lose his leg or limb and be looking for compensation. Indeed, our collaboration with NECA, which is tagged, ‘Safe Workplace Intervention Project (SWIP), which is an annual event where establishments that keep excellent work safety ethics are rewarded, is part of the steps taken to ensure workers are safe while at work. I am happy to report that this and other initiatives have helped to bring down the rate of industrial accidents in the country,” he submitted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .