Tupac Amaru Shakur | Image: Ebony The whole world believes that late American rap legend Tupac Shakur died from the gunshot wounds he sustained on the night of September 7th, 1996, in Las Vegas, however, a filmmaker Rick Boss is convinced that the rapper’s death was staged and that he is still alive. In an interview with ABC 13’s KTNV, Boss talked about his new film, 2Pac: The Great Escape from UMC in which he would explore the conspiracies surrounding Tupac’s death and the possibility of the rapper being alive. 2Pac_ The Great Escape from UMC 1-4 screenshot According to Boss, Tupac Shakur was informed of a planned hit on his life when he arrived in Las Vegas for a Tyson fight. Boss believes Tupac and Suge Knight planned the whole thing, and even had a Pac look-alike sit right next to Knight before being shot on the Vegas strip. Rick Boss goes on to further explain his theory, stating that FBI agents can’t go onto tribal land without the tribal council’s permission. It is for this reason Boss believes Navajo land in New Mexico makes sense. “This movie is about Tupac actually escaping from University Medical Center here in Vegas and relocating to New Mexico. Getting protection from the Navajo tribe. “When certain FBI agencies are looking for you, they are going to block the airport. So you can’t travel out so the best way to escape is through helicopter, private helicopter to another state,” Boss said. Boss’ film is set to come out next year. He claims it is the truth and its made up of facts. “You can write a fiction. You can write a fiction story but this is not a fiction. This is facts through certain people I know,” said Boss. Rick Boss father knew Tupac’s mother Afeni Shakur, as the two were involved in the Black Panther Party. But, how does the Shakur family feel about the movie? “Let’s just say Mr. Shakur – the family is aware of the movie and they’re okay with the title so that should tell you more or less what’s going on,” said Boss. Boss is not alone in his belief that Tupac Shakur is alive. There are dozens of conspiracy theories claiming that the rapper is still alive. Read More: Five Conspiracy Theories That Prove That Tupac Might Be Alive Hmmm Tupac is alive and working?!? http://t.co/nxmU84qg — Kim Kardashian West (@KimKardashian) September 29, 2012  Tupac Shakur’s last photograph before his death | Image: BET Below are some of the strongest theories on Tupac Shakur’s death: What happened to his cremation?
Tupac Shakur was cremated the day after he died – so on September 14. Suge Knight said he paid for the cremation – which for some reason he claims cost him $3 million. The cremator though has never been heard from again – he literally disappeared off the face of this earth. Weirdly hip hop group The Outlawz, who were founded by Tupac, said they smoked his ashes with some cannabis – gross. In 2014 E.D.I Mean, who is an Outlawz member, confirmed the ashes weren’t actually Tupac’s. So whose ashes did they smoke and why was there the confusion? He’s in Cuba?
Some people believe that after faking his own death Tupac fled to Cuba where his aunt Assata lives.
Michael Nice, who was formerly Tupac’s bodyguard claimed Tupac had been smuggled into Cuba with the help of Fidel Castro after he faked his death in a drive-by shooting. Cryptic messages in his lyrics?
After Tupac’s death, his fans have analysed his music and concluded the rapper gave out some clues. In “Richie Rich’s N***** Done Change” he rapped: “I’ve been shot and murdered, can’t tell you how it happened word for word but best believe that n*****’ gonna get what they deserve.” On another track he says: “all for the street fame on how to be managed, to plan s***, 6 months in advance to what we plotted, approved to go on swole and now I got it.” Perhaps, the most convincing is the verse in “Aint’ Hard 2 Find”: “I heard rumors that I died murdered in cold blood, traumatized pictures of me in my final states — you know mama cried. But that was fiction, some coward got the story twisted.”