Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu (right); President Muhammadu Buhari; Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State; his Edo counterpart, Godwin Obaseki; and Chairman, Ondo State Traditional Council, Oba Obateru Akinruntan, during the commissioning of the Ondo Linyl Industrial Hub by the president in Ondo State …yesterday. President Muhammadu Buhari has stated that if the available natural resources in the 36 states are well utilised, they could create massive employment and end poverty in Nigeria. He declared that his administration would give maximum support to foreign investors who desire to invest in any state by helping them to expand their operations. Buhari spoke yesterday in Ondo State while commissioning the Ondo-Linyi Industrial Hub and a flyover at Ore, headquarters of Odigbo Local Council, to mark the third anniversary of the Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu administration. He described the massive projects initiated and completed by the governor as remarkable achievements that would open up the state for industrialisation. According to the president, the two projects would lead to massive economic and infrastructure development across the 18 council areas of the state. He observed that the industrial hub was a product of hard work and dedication, expressing confidence that the project would create more jobs for the teeming unemployed youths. His words: “I am impressed with what is on the ground here and I anticipate the positive impact it will have on the people of this state. I take this opportunity to commend investors who saw Nigeria and Ondo State in particular as a viable investment destination.
“I want to assure you of our continued support both at the federal and state levels, as we move forward to the next phase of this project’s lifecycle.” Buhari lauded the people and traditional rulers for their support to the state government and party, urging them to protect the massive industrial investment in their various domains. In his remarks, Governor Akeredolu said the industrial hub was part of the vision of his administration to create jobs and improve the fortunes of the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .