Residents of Ota-Ono area of Ikorodu can now sleep with their two eyes closed following the arrest of a 37-year-old man, Ganiyu Solomon, accused of breaking into houses to remove valuables when owners are not around. His arrest followed series of complaint from residents who were his victims. Detectives said that the complainants had alleged in their petition that their homes had been burgled when they were out to work and that during which phones, jewelries and electronic sets had been stolen. It was gathered that upon receipt of the complaint, detectives from Ikorodu police station trailed the suspect to an isolated area of the town where he was nabbed.
 
When contacted, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, said on February 21, at about 1:00p.m. detectives from Ikorodu Police Station arrested the serial burglar, one Ganiu Solomon, 37, of No. 5 Okuku Street Ota-Ono Ikorodu. Elkana said he was arrested in connection with series of complaints received from residents of Ota Ono area, Ikorodu on incidents of burglary and stealing. According to him, all the complaints received indicated the same modus operandi, suggesting the fact that the crime was perpetrated by the same syndicate.
 
“One of such cases was reported on November 4, 2019, at about 6:30p.m. by one Nkiruka Ezeokobe, of Mojisola Sari Street Ota-Ono Ikorodu. The suspects mostly break into residential buildings when they notice that the occupants are not at home or must have slept. They pass through the ceiling and windows, removing the burglary proof on the windows.
 
“Items recovered from the suspect include one Samsung phone valued at N235,000 and one gold necklace valued at N150,000 among others as well as the implements they use in house breaking. They are part of the items stolen from Nkiruka. The suspect confessed to the commission of the crime. Investigation is ongoing. Efforts are being intensified to arrest other members of his gang,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .