A section of the toll plaza at Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos • Sensitises stakeholders on service quality 
The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) yesterday terminated the concession contract of toll collection at the access gate of Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, a year after the existing contract expired. The move, therefore, cancels toll collection by Integrated Intelligent Imaging West Africa Limited (ICUBE), which had been in contest since Monday. Recall that a coalition of aviation workers’ unions stormed the access gate early Monday to chase away officials of ICUBE, and replace them with FAAN officials citing expiration of contract since February 2019. The situation, however, took a new turn yesterday morning when ICUBE workers mobilised some policemen to dislodge FAAN’s toll collectors and return to status quo. The unions also remobilised shortly after to return the facility back to FAAN officials after hours of faceoff at the corridor. The management of FAAN said the termination of ICUBE’s contract was with immediate effect, as the five- year concession agreement expired in February 2019. This latest development was contained in a letter dated 4th February, 2020 signed by the Managing Director/Chief Executive of FAAN, Captain Rabiu Yadudu and addressed to the Managing Director of I-Cube. The management said: “Kindly be informed that the Authority has resolved to temporarily take over the management of the said Murtala Muhammed International Airport Access Gate with immediate effect to determine the actual revenue generated from the Access Gate. “By this letter you are requested to vacate the premises immediately. This is to enable the Authority take appropriate decision on the management of the Access Gate,” the statement read in part. ICUBE acquired the control of the toll gates in 2008 in a contract to last five-year period. The company was to remit N40 million monthly to the coffers of FAAN. After that initial agreement expired, the contract was reviewed and renegotiated in 2013 and the concessionaire agreed to remit N68 million monthly. The current agreement expired in February 2019. In a related development, FAAN has enjoined all stakeholders within the airport community to always ensure continuous improvement in the quality of service rendered at the nation’s airport. The Authority made the call at an Airport Council International (ACI) Airport Service Quality sensitisation programme held in Lagos yesterday. The Managing Director of FAAN, who was represented by the Director of Airport Operations, Capt. Mukhtar Muye, noted that FAAN signed an agreement with ACI in the year 2018 for the periodic audit of her airport systems and processes with a view to improving on the quality of service offerings at her airports. He enjoined all stakeholders to continuously embrace the philosophy to Total Quality Management in their day to day activities. In her presentation, the General Manager, Operations of FAAN, who is also the ACI focal person in FAAN, Olajumoke Oni, noted that between the year 2018 when the Authority signed up into the ACI ASQ programme, FAAN has recorded some measures of improvement in general facilitation as depicted by the ACI’s analysis of various customer surveys conducted within the period. She appealed to all stakeholders to keep working at improving the quality of service delivery at our airports at all times so that we can be able to compete favourably with other airports in our categories. In attendance at the event were the General Managers Planning, Estate, Customer Service, Electrical and ICT. Also in attendance were representatives from NCAA, Nigerian Immigration Services, the Airlines Community, amongst several others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .