League leaders, Plateau United yesterday in Makurdi ensured they remained on top of the table with a gutsy showing at Lobi Stars in their Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) Week 21 game. The match at the Aper Aku Stadium Makurdi was touted as the clash of the week due to the impressive performances of the teams, but they served a cautious game, which ended in a goalless draw. A win would have taken Lobi Stars on top of the ladder above Plateau United, but they are now in the third position following Rivers United’s 2-1 defeat of Kano Pillars in Port Harcourt. The Stanley Eguma-led Rivers United jumped above Lobi Stars courtesy of goals by Konan N’Gouan (20th-minute penalty) and Emotan Cletus (87th minute), while Rabiu Ali reduced the tally for Pillars in the 90th minute. Relegation-threatened Jigawa Golden Stars heaved a sigh of relief yesterday when they downed Wikki Tourist 2-1 in Kano. The visiting Wikki Tourists took the lead in the second minute of the game through Promise Damala, but Ibrahim Saleh equalized for Jigawa early in the second half, before Abdulahi Lala ensured the win for the stars. Akwa United continued in their indifferent season yesterday when they could only draw 1-1 with relegation-threatened Warri Wolves in Uyo. A win would have taken Akwa United closer to the top three, but they were jolted in the 70th minute when Jumbo Wisdom opened scores for Wolves from the penalty spot. Ndifreke Effiong, however, saved their blushes later to keep them in the fourth position. High-riding Enyimba came tumbling down in Lafia where hitherto poor Nasarawa United beat them 2-0. Enyimba had been on a seven-game unbeaten streak, but they did not bargain for what befell them in Lafia. The Peoples Elephant thought they had the lead in the 17th minute when Dare Olatunji found the net, but the goal was ruled out as coming from an offside position. Nasarawa took the lead through Chinedu Ohanachom, who pounced on a rebound from Haggai Katoh’s effort, while Katoh made sure of the points a minute to the end of the encounter. Joseph Atule scored an early goal to hand Katsina United a 1-0 defeat of Abia Warriors at the Mohamed Dikko. In other games, Fidelis Ikechukwu’s Heartland held his former club, MFM FC to a goalless draw at the Agege Stadium, just as Rangers also drew 0-0 with Sunshine Stars in Akure, while Adamawa United recorded a rare win when they beat FC IfeanyiUbah 2-1.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .