The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is collaborating with key cyber security stakeholders to foster a robust cyber security environment for effective protection of the country’s information and communication infrastructure and networks. To this end, the commission has flagged off nationwide cyber security awareness campaign to sensitise students and guide them against cyber-related crimes such as cyber bullying, internet fraud and identity theft among others. Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said though the internet is an indispensable element of everyday life, which provides the opportunity for research and learning for our teeming youths and children, it also exposes them to harmful contents, thus the need for effective protection. He noted that NCC wanted to ensure that Nigerian children and youths are protected from Cyber criminals, stressing that the fight against cybercrimes transcends geographical jurisdictions and as such, the commission is working to build strategic partnership and collaborative alliances with stakeholders, agencies and organisations. Danbatta observed that NCC is involved in all the collaborative processes that culminated in fashioning out of the National Cyber Security Policy, strategy, and the cybercrimes ACT, 2015 which will soon be undergoing review. He further said the Commission had commenced the process of establishing a Cyber Security Incidence Response Team (CSIRT) for the communication sector for international coordination of Cyber security incidents in Nigeria. In his remarks, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, who commended NCC for the initiative, described the youths as the future of Nigeria. The minister, who was represented by his Special Assistant Information Technology, Dr. Femi Adeluyi, said child online protection was very important. Pantami lauded the Commission for the drop in number of improperly registered SIM cards and urged Nigerians to project themselves as ambassadors of a country that does not tolerate cyber crimes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .