Ekiti State government has raised the alarm over alleged increasing incidents of sexual violence in secondary schools across the state. The government expressed its concern at the weekend at a meeting it held with the State Executive Council of the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) at the Ministry of Justice Academy. In separate statements issued at the end of the parley, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Olawale Fapohunda and his counterpart in the Education, Science, and Technology, Mr. Foluso Daramola, expressed government’s concern about the frequency of the incidents. According to the attorney-general, the meeting was called with the NUT to formally inform them of the ongoing joint investigations by the government and the state police command into allegations of sexual violence in schools. Fapounda said that preliminary investigations showed that some members of the NUT are raping their students in at least three secondary schools in the state. He, however, reminded the teachers of the zero-tolerance policy of the Fayemi’s administration for all forms of sexual violence. In another development, the Ekiti State Chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has dissociated itself from an alleged plot by the former governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose and his allies in the party to impose a consensus candidate ahead of the primary slated for April 2, 2020. Fayose had openly endorsed the candidature of his former Commissioner for Environment, Mr. Bisi Kolawole, to replace the incumbent Chairman, Gboyega Oguntuase. However, a new twist was added at the weekend when the former governor allegedly called a meeting, which was held at the house of a party leader, Senator Clement Awoyelu, where the idea of a consensus chairmanship candidate was mooted. But in a statement yesterday by the state’s Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Jackson Adebayo, the PDP cautioned leaders of the party from engaging in meetings that can cause confusion and disharmony among its members. The Ekiti PDP leadership declared such a meeting as an aberration, saying that whatever decision taken there was null and void. “The clarification becomes necessary in order to correct the erroneous impression that the meeting was called on behalf of the party. The convener of the meeting and former governor of the state, Ayodele Fayose, was expected to let the gathering know that the meeting was his personal idea instead of creating the impression that it was an official party meeting. “The party cautioned the group, which is associated with the former governor to desist from brigandage politics, but concentrate on canvassing for delegates’ support because the party will not encourage consensus arrangement. The constitution of the party will strictly be adhered to,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .