The 2020 edition of the Social Media Week (SMW) Lagos opens today at the Land Mark Event Centre, Oniru, Lagos. The event, which brings together experts in the technology, social and economic landscapes from home and abroad, would run from today through 28th with the theme, Human X. The Human X SMW Lagos 2020 is to lead an important conversation focused on what it means to take a human-first and experience-driven approach to innovations across industries and communities on the African continent. Meanwhile, The Guardian, which is once again the official media partner of the SMW Lagos, hosts two-panel sessions today, with the theme: “The Future of Digital Publishing.” A panel typically features a moderator, and up to five industry experts, who represent different perspectives and opinions in a given area. The panels last for 60 minutes each and can sit up to 300 people. In Session one which holds between 11 a.m. and 12 p.m., aggregator giants and digital publishers would discuss the topic: “User Experience Vs Content: How can the media best deliver.”  The panelists include Product Marketing Manager, Google, Sub-Saharan Africa, Tutu Laditan; Executive Creative Director, Noah’s Ark Communications Nigeria, Abolaji Alausa; Chief Executive Officer, Big Cabal Media, Tomiwa Aladekomo; and the Strategic Media Partnerships, Facebook, Sub-Saharan Africa, Jocelyne Muhutu-Remy. The setting is to be moderated by Head, Digital, The Guardian Nigeria, Lolade Nwanze. Publisher, The Guardian, Lady Maiden Alex-Ibru, and the Executive Director/Managing Director, Commercial Press, Tive Alex-Ibru, are to grace the session. Panelists in the first session are considering, “Defining and Regulating ‘Hate Speech’: Impacts on Audience Needs and Retention.” The speakers include Head Anglophone West Africa, Africa Public Policy, Facebook, Adaora Ikenze; Media Consultant/Host of Your View on TVC, Morayo Afolabi-Brown; Chairman/CEO, Nigerian in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa; and Legal Partner, SBM Intelligence, Cheta Nwanze. The session is to be moderated by Tolulope Adelerun-Balogun. The organisers have however promised participants a time of insightful conversations, reflections, and laudable impact. They stressed that this year’s event would uncover how technology helps people find their individuality and foster community, thereby transforming the world into a global village. Since its launch in 2013, SMW Lagos has continued to serve as a point of convergence for Africa’s most innovative minds. The conference has become a marquee event for business leaders, global thinkers, entrepreneurs, civil servants and anyone with a keen interest in Africa. The conversation brings together a diversity of perspectives on most productive ways to harness these forces to drive innovation, improve consumer experiences and camaraderie. The week-long event would focus on key socio-economic and technology issues: “The Future of Media, Governance, Music Industry, African Women in Tech, Travel & Tourism, Emerging Ideas & Trends.” To the co-founder and Executive Director, SMW Lagos, Ngozi Odita, “I think the fact that #SMWLagos is able to bring so many people together at one time to discuss how we can collaborate and collectively move Nigeria and Africa forward is one of our biggest accomplishments.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .