A digital crowd funding platform, Giving.Ng, with the support of 241 individuals and corporate bodies have provided support for families at the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) Camp in New Karu, Nasarawa State. During the presentation of the items, the First Lady of Nasarawa State, Hajia Silifat Sule, said the initiative exemplifies true spirit of the Nigerian people. She promised further collaboration with the platform to increase the scale of impact. A member of the Lower Chamber of the National Assembly, representing Karu/Keffi/Kokona Federal Constituency in the state, Hon. Gaza Jonathan Gbefwi, who also commended Giving.Ng and her partners said: “We know that individuals and corporate bodies have social responsibility and are obliged to act for the benefit of society at large. “Yet, I am particularly touched that Nigerians from all walks of life and a few corporations chose to actually extend hand of love to this particular IDPs camp.” To say the least, I am moved, and I really appreciate this gesture on their behalf.” Marketing Manager, Seven-Up Bottling Company, Segun Ogunleye, said the donation of its products was a token to the IDPs who have gone through a lot in recent times. He commended Giving.ng for the timely initiative, while promising more support to the needy in the society. In her remarks, the Founder of Ella’s Foodbank, Emmanuella Chimdi Ibeawuchi said her organisation partnered Giving.Ng because the platform has shown commitment to the social initiative using an uncommon approach. Sterling Bank’s Regional Channels Manager, Abuja, Mr. Nelson Ozuem, said the donation shows the commitment of the firm to giving back to the society. He pledged that the bank would continue to partner stakeholders in its efforts to improve lives of deserving members of the public. Earlier in her address, Giving.Ng Project Manager, Mrs. Peju Ibekwe, lauded the support of Nigerians and corporate partners who supported the effort of her team. She added that Giving.Ng was committed to doing more, noting that the platform has potentials of making a huge impact in the lives of people that need help. According to the platform, Seven Up Bottling Company, Sterling Bank Plc and Ella’s FoodBank, featured among corporate organisations that sponsored the initiative. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .