Sports Minister, Sunday Dare will meet with heads of the various federations tomorrow to deliberate on the country’s participation at the Olympic Games billed for Tokyo in June. Tomorrow’s meeting, according to Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) Vice President, Babs Ogunade, will review the country’s preparations for the Games, as well as the needs of the federations as they enter the last leg of their training for the world meet. Ogunade, who arrived in the country yesterday from Serbia, where the women national basketball team, D’Tigress, booked their ticket to the Olympics, told The Guardian that the meeting would help the NBBF programme the men’s and women teams for good performances at the Olympics. Ogunade said: “The federations that have qualified for the Olympics will meet with the sports minister on Thursday this week. After the meeting, the federations will know the next line of action for their teams’ preparations for the 2020 Olympics. “The NBBF is delighted that D’Tigers and D’Tigress will compete at the 2020 Olympics. The girls have travelled to their various clubs after the Olympics qualifiers. “Our focus in the NBBF is how to ensure the male and female teams get the best preparations for the 2020 Olympics.” Ogunade added that NBBF decided to appoint Mike Brown as the new head coach of the men’s national team (D’Tigers) to ensure the team got the best technical assistance at the 2020 Japan Olympics. He added that the vast experience of Brown in the NBA would be needed to raise a formidable squad for the championship. Ogunade explained that the appointment of Brown was not in any way done because Alex Nwora, who qualified D’Tigers for the Olympics, was not competent enough to handle the team in the championship, adding that due consultations were carried out before the appointment of Brown to lead the team’s technical crew. “His contract at this moment is only to lead D’Tigers to the Olympics. Nwora is a good coach by any standard. He has done a good job with the Nigerian men’s national team since he took charge, but the NBBF has to fortify the team’s technical crew so that the D’Tigers will compete at its best in the championship. “The Olympics is not an inter-house sport. The very best teams in the world will participate in the event, so the NBBF needs to give the D’Tigers the best assistance to compete favourably with the top teams. Brown will be assisted by Nwora.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .