The Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) on Monday issued travel advisory to motorists and commuters ahead of the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon scheduled for Saturday within the Lagos metropolis. The travel advisory is contained in a statement by the Director, Public Relations, LSSC, Titi Oshodi, in Lagos. The marathon, starting from 5.30 a.m., will see some of the major highways in Lagos experience total closure while it is on. Outlining the dedicated routes, Oshodi said: “The Marathon shall commence from the National Stadium, Surulere, and shall go through Funsho Williams Avenue, Ojuelegba Bridge and Dorman-Long Bridge to descend into Ikorodu Road. “The race will go through Fadeyi, Obanikoro, Anthony and connect Gbagada, Third Mainland Bridge, Adeniji, Osborne Road, Alfred Rewane (Old Kingsway) Road, Falomo Roundabout, Bourdillion Road and Cable Bridge. “In view of the designated routes of the Marathon being closed to traffic, in some instances, from 4.00a.m, it is imperative that motorists and commuters be advised on alternative routes.’’ According to her, the alternative routes are being made available so that individuals can plan their journeys in advance. She said that motorists on Eko Bridge coming from Lagos Island should be diverted to Costain Roundabout to connect Ebute-Metta, Orile, Nigerian Breweries and Bode Thomas to connect destination. “Motorists coming from Costain inward journey Alaka shall be diverted to Iponri and Iponri Estate to Bode Thomas to connect destination. “Motorists coming from Masha, Kilo inward journey to Stadium shall be diverted at Shitta Roundabout for onward movement through Falolu or Adeniran Ogunsanya Roads to connect destination.’’ She said that motorists coming from Apapa/Orile-Iganmu going toward Ojuelegba, Mushin and environs should go through Eric Moore, Bode Thomas, Adeniran Ogunsanya, Shitta Roundabout and Falolu among others to connect destination. “On Ikorodu Road, vehicular movement is allowed from Anthony (by Theodolite Junction) inward Ojota. Traffic is also allowed from Ojota through Maryland, Anthony to Ojuelegba to Eko Bridge via the National Stadium Bridge. “However, no U-turn is allowed between Anthony and Stadium as a result of the marathon holding from Stadium inwards Anthony. “On Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Motorists coming from Mile 2 inward journey Gbagada, cannot go through Anthony Oke until the Race leaves the axis. “Hence, Motorists shall be diverted into Agege Motor Road via the service lane of BOC Gases / Armed Forces Resettlement Centre, or through Town Planning Way to connect destination.’’ She added that motorists coming from Old Tollgate, Alapere, Ogudu going to Lagos Island would be diverted to Gbagada, Anthony to connect Ikorodu Road onward journey Funsho Williams Avenue to connect Lagos Island through Eko Bridge. “Motorists coming from Ajah inward Ozumba Mbadiwe shall be diverted to Admiralty Way from Lekki Second Roundabout to connect Cable Bridge onward journey to destination. “Motorists descending Cable Bridge into Ikoyi shall be diverted into Gerrard Road to connect Osborne Road and connect destination. Bourdillion and Alexander Roads are closed to vehicular traffic within the duration of the Race. “From Awolowo Road, Motorists shall be diverted to Falomo Bridge to connect Ozumba Mbadiwe Road while Falomo Roundabout inwards Bourdillion shall be closed to traffic, as well as Akin Adesola inwards Bar Beach. “The motoring public should please, note that all adjoining streets and feeder roads leading to the Marathon route shall be temporarily closed to traffic until the exercise leaves that axis to ensure the safety of the athletes.’’ Oshodi also apologised for any inconvenience the event would cause, saying that the Lagos State Government was seeking the cooperation and understanding of the general public. “We expect compliance with the directives of Traffic and Security Personnel strategically positioned at critical points and intersections in order to maintain compliance and orderliness,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .