Plain-clothed operatives attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), Lagos State police command are mourning the death of their colleague. The operatives are also seeking divine help to stop the cold hand of death from taking away officers in their unit.
 
It was gathered that on Friday, a newly promoted senior operative of the unit, identified as Christopher Akpan, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, was said to have allegedly slumped and died in his office at the command. ASP Akpan, who was fondly called ‘S/O’, had led junior officials to arrest some suspected criminals but met his untimely death, as he was getting ready for another operation.
 
A source in SARS, who pleaded anonymity, said: “Oga Akpan’s death is still a shock to me. He came back from an operation with his boys and went into his office to prepare for another operation. His boys after waiting for him to no avail went to knock on his door but there was no response. They felt he had gone out and they called his mobile phone, it rang but he did not pick up. They decided to kick his door open and they saw him sitting on his chair but couldn’t talk or move. They rushed him to the hospital but he was confirmed dead on arrival. The body was deposited at the mortuary for autopsy report.” The cause of death is still sketchy and unknown as the autopsy report has not been made public though his colleagues said there was no report that he was sick the previous day as he even led an operation shortly before his death. The late Akpan was former Station Officer of FSARS before he was recently elevated to a higher position. He hailed from Akwa Ibom State and was married with children who reside at Okota Barracks in Lagos. Since the incident happened, some of his colleagues had expressed shock over the incident describing the late Akpan as a disciplined officer, who worked diligently and professionally with his other colleagues.  Another deceased operative, identified simply as Inspector Tunde, was said to have allegedly died after a brief illness and he is yet to be buried. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .