An 18-year-old girl, Idowu Abosede, has been arrested by men of the Ogun State police command for allegedly stabbing her boyfriend, Aliyu Ibrahim, to death.
 
The suspect was arrested following a distress call received from Seriki Hausa in Sagamu that the suspect and her deceased boyfriend were arguing over the sum of N3,000 as a result of which they were dragging a knife with each other before the girl eventually used the knife to stab her boyfriend on the chest, which resulted to his death. Another account of how life was snuffed out of the deceased alleged that the suspect was a commercial sex worker who bargained for N3,000 with the deceased for a night at the weekend. Trouble, however, erupted when the deceased was said to have refused to pay the suspect, an action that resulted in a verbal confrontation between the duo. The quarrel degenerated into a fight, during which the suspect allegedly thrust a knife into the deceased chest. However, the suspect, during interrogation, told the police that the deceased was her boyfriend. She admitted to having spent the night with him, adding that when leaving the next day, she attempted to collect her boyfriend’s N3,000 that was inside his pocket. She said: “He said he would not give me all the money and we started quarreling. He was the one that brought the knife. While dragging it with him, the knife stabbed him on the chest.”
 
On receiving the distress call, the DPO Sagamu, Okiki Agunbiade, detailed his detectives to the scene where the suspected teenager was apprehended. The blood-stained knife, which he used to stab the deceased, was also recovered.
 
The body of the deceased has been released to his relations on their demand to bury him in accordance with Islamic rights. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .