President Muhammadu Buhari flanked by Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje (right) and Honourable Alhassan Ado-Doguwa as he receives in audience newly-elected APC legislators and elders from Kano State at the State House, Abuja…yesterday. PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA …Dispute Will Be Resolved Constitutionally, Says Ganduje
President Mohammadu Buhari yesterday stated that it was not within his purview to interfere in the dispute between the Emir of Kano, His Royal Highness, Muhammadu Sanusi II and the Governor of the state, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. The President, who spoke while receiving Ganduje and newly elected legislators on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Kano State before departing for the African Union Summit (AU) in Addis Ababa, said: “I know my role as the President of Nigeria. By the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the governor of Kano State has his own roles. Once a matter is in the hands of the House of Assembly (like in Kano), the President has no constitutional right to interfere. “I am here by the constitution. I swore by it and I am going to stand by it. But let me tell you; the bottom-line of my understanding of the constitutional role is that peace and security of all Nigerians must be guaranteed. Where the people are threatened, then I will use my constitutional powers.” He assured that the separation of powers between the Federal Government and the states notwithstanding, he has enough grounds in the constitution to ensure that the security of Nigerians is not compromised. The President, according to a statement issued by Senior Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, advised the elected officials to live up to the promises they made to their constituents to justify the confidence reposed in them. “I hope you are mindful of your promises to your constituencies. You went round and you promised your constituencies. I hope the promises you made are within the resources of your state. If you made promises outside your resources, it will be your problem because you are going to stand again in four years time. This is very important and it is important for our party.” Governor Ganduje, who led the delegation, while speaking with State House Correspondents on the long standing rift between him and Sanusi II, stated that the matter was being discussed at the highest level, but noted that it was a constitutional issue that would be resolved constitutionally. He acknowledged that a high-powered committee had been set up to bring the rift to an end, hoping that solution would soon be found to the disagreement. The governor, whose over 100-man delegation included only one of the five emirs in the state, was responding to a question on why the Emir of Kano was absent. “We have five first class Emirates in Kano State and the Emir of Bichi, Alhaji Aminu Ado, is from one of the Emirates. I cannot come with the whole five Emirates at the same time. “Yes, there is the Northern Elders Committee on the misunderstanding between the Emir of Kano and Kano State government. We met with that committee and dialoguing is still on. That is all I can say. It is a constitutional issue and the governor and the emir, we are working within our own jurisdictions and the problem will be solved amicably and constitutionally,” he said. The governor had earlier thanked the President for Federal Government projects in the state including the Kano-Abuja road reconstruction; the modern railway from Kaduna to Kano, and from Kano to Niger Republic; the gas pipeline from Ajaokuta to Kaduna and from Kaduna to Kano; dualisation of Kano-Katsina highway; as well as the construction and equipping of new terminal wing of the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport. He also apprised the President of efforts of his government to make life better for Kano citizens especially in terms of security and education. “We have done a lot in the area of security, even installing CCTV cameras in black spots and all major routes into Kano state.  We also have a multi-purpose vehicle for monitoring, which has helped in arresting kidnappers and Boko Haram terrorists. We have also established an army training area.” He said the state has also curtailed herdsmen/farmers clashes by establishing settlements. On the disturbing phenomenon of out-of-school children, the governor said: “We used to have one million out-of-school children but now we are down to about 400,000 on account of the new education policy which now makes schooling free and compulsory from basic to secondary school, complemented with free feeding, free uniforms and free instructional materials.” He said his administration had also recruited 600 teachers to teach Mathematics and English as well as 3,000 teachers for Almajiri schools that will be incorporated into the normal school system.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .