For exhibiting immeasurable ingenuity in the art of teaching, Caleb British International School has rewarded the school’s art teacher, Prince Olusegun Michael Adeniyi, with the sum of N500, 000. The sum, courtesy of the school’s director, Dr. Ola Adebogun, was formally presented to him during an accolade assembly held recently at the CBIS sports arena, Lagos. Adeniyi, who was also the recipient of the president’s teachers and schools excellence award; best school teacher (private category) 2019, had also received the outstanding staff award at the Caleb Group of Schools and university gospel musical and award ceremony. According to the school, Adeniyi is notable for doing great exploit in his profession as he has won numerous local and international awards. He has also received several certifications from various institutions. Adeniyi has spent over two decades giving the children the access to the best, most-stimulating and most-rewarding artistic engagements. He was trained as a teacher at the Federal College of Education, Osiele. Adeniyi in his response, said: “My vision is to raise the standard of art education, advance the learning field of art and inspire the next generations of artists and art lovers who will be innovative thinkers and global citizens. “My goal is to increase students’ motivation, awareness and understanding of the arts, nurture their talents and prepare them to excel in life by harnessing the 21st Century learning tools. “I passionately work to achieve some of the UN Sustainable Development Goals like goal four, which is quality education, ensuring inclusive and equitable quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all my students.” “I also have interest in goal five, which is gender equality, working to achieve gender equality and empowerment of the women and girls. Goal 12, which is climate action, stimulates me to take action with my students to combat climate change and its impacts; while goal 16, (peace and justice), spurs me to engage and create with my students artworks that promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .