A painting by Duke Asidere titled ‘Merit the Model (2003, Oil on prepared paper, 60 x 40 cm.” As part of efforts aimed at promoting art appreciation and engaging new collectors, Arthouse Contemporary will hold its fifth Affordable Art Auction next week. The last edition, which was hurriedly rescheduled to avoid being held on the date of 2019 general elections, according to the results released by the organisers, recorded “a total of N27,047,750 million from 97 lots.” The previous year’s edition had 107 lots on sale and recorded N26, 668,000 million. For last year’s auction, the two top sales of the evening were Rom Isichei’s Strength of Purpose I and II, oil on boards, sold for N1,150,000 and N1,116,250. Other sales of the night included, Pita Ohiwerei’s No Woman No Cry, an oil on canvas dated 1999, and sold for N1,057,500; Bunmi Babatunde’s bronze sculpture, Possibilities, sold for N1,034,000; and Twins Seven Seven’s The Great Fisherman, a mixed media on board from 2001, sold for N998,750. At the maiden edition of Affordable auction, in 2016, 72 per cent of the lots were sold, leading to a total of N31, 050, 000 million ($155,250). David Dale, Muraina Oyelami, Jimoh Buraimoh, Matt Ehizele, Sam Ovraiti and Duke Asidere, among others, are artists whose works of art estimated below one million naira go on display for the 2020 edition holding on March 7, at the Kia Showroom, Victoria Island, Lagos. To give art enthusiasts and collectors opportunity to prepare for the auction sale ahead, a preview has been scheduled to hold on March 5 to 7, at the same venue. “As a sister edition to the May and November auctions, the Affordable Art Auction features works that are scaled to an accessible price point,” Arthouse Contemporary stated. This edition features 101 lots by leading modern and contemporary artists with small-scale works and prints by modern masters. Also featuring, according to the auction house, is a print of Ben Enwonwu’s iconic painting, Tutu. Supported by Kia Motors, Absolut, 7UP and The Guardian Arts, the auction will also feature works of contemporary artists such as, Isichei, Alimi Adewale, Ben Osaghae, Kainebi Osahenye, Tolu Aliki, Uchay Joel Chima, Alex Nwokolo, Kehinde Oso, Tola Wewe and Charles Okereke. The auction will equally feature rising artists, many of whom are “participating for the first time.” They include, Dare Adenuga, Muyiwa Akinwolere, Edozie Anedu, Deborah Segun, Johnson Uwadinma, Agemo Francis, Timi Kakandar, John Madu, Femi Morakinyo, Qozeem Abdullahman, Onyinye Afam and Michael Eneijson. In support of the Arthouse Foundation, a non-profit artist residency programme in Lagos, the auction will also feature charity lots with artworks by Oladele Awosoga, Nkechi Nwosu-Igbo, A. Akande and Enem Inwang. The proceeds from these charity lots, the auction house assured stakeholders, “would go directly to supporting the programmes of the Arthouse Foundation, including its residencies, workshops, talks and exhibitions.” Founded in 2007, Arthouse Contemporary is an international auction house that specialises in modern and contemporary art from West Africa. Arthouse Contemporary aims to create awareness of the scope of contemporary art in the region, encourage international recognition towards its talented artists and strengthen the economy of its art market. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .