TV presenter Phillip Schofield with his friend and This Morning co-host Holly Willoughby | SkyNews 57-year-old TV presenter Phillip Schofield has come out as gay. The “This Morning” presenter made the announcement about his sexuality in a lengthy Instagram post earlier this morning. Schofield who has two daughters and has been married to Steph for 27 years revealed that he is ready to ‘celebrate and be proud’ of his sexuality. The post was made before he was set to appear on the magazine show to discuss the news with his co-star and best friend Holly Willoughby. He broke down in tears during the show as he spoke to Willoughby about coming out. Schofield who said he suffered “inner conflict” also admitted there were times he ‘didn’t like himself’ and revealed: “It’s been bothering me for a long time.” Asked about a potential new relationship, he said: “I don’t think so, I’m not thinking there. I’m doing each day at a time now. This has always been a slow process. There is no fast process after this.” Speaking about the relief he feels about coming out and the battle of keeping his secret, he says that for every person he tells, he feels a little lighter as he made the decision to come out because it is essential for him and his head. Speaking about telling his daughters, he said: “It wasn’t easy [telling my daughters]. But they are so amazing in their love and support. They jumped up and gave me a hug, a big hug, a long hug.” He also appreciated his wife for her support. He said: “She’s amazing, she’s incredible there’s no one in my life who would have supported me, as a wife the way she’s supported me, she’s astonishing, literally astonishing, it’s a good questions, you know this has been bothered me for a very long time… Steph has been incredible – I love her so very much. She is the kindest soul I have ever met. My girls have been astonishing in their love, hugs and encouraging words of comfort. Both mine and Steph’s entire families have stunned me with their love, instant acceptance and support.” Phil met Stephanie when she was a BBC production assistant and he was working for the BBC Children’s television.