The GTB 2020 Lagos International Polo Tournament ended yesterday with Leighton Kings winning the prestigious Majekodunmi Cup. High-flying Leighton Kings defeated Lintex Agad 10 to 5 to win the prestigious Majekodunmi Cup at the 2020 GTBank Lagos International Polo Tournament, which ended on a flourishing note yesterday. NRT also clinched the Low Cup, while RCF won the Governor’s Cup. Among the dignitaries on the final day of the competition, which featured 39 teams, were the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwoolu, his Deputy, Obafemi Hamzat, Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, Alhaji Aliko Dangote and MD/CEO GTBank, Mr Segun Agbaje. The Kings, which had Bowale Jolaosho, Bello Buba, Raul Laplacette and Manuel Crespo, were aiming for an unprecedented four title wins having won the Oba of Lagos Cup, Open Cup, Italian Ambassador’s Cup, but were pushed all through in the opening and second chukkas by Agad, which paraded Sodiq Dantata, Bashir Dantata, Chris McKenzie and Thomas Lorente. The Kings’ superiority eventually came to fore from the third all through the end of the six-chukka match, as they coasted to victory with five clear goals. In the  Low Cup final, which was the penultimate match of the dual-phase tournament, Timi Badiru scored a high – goal with less than two minutes to play as NRT survived a late surge by STL for a 9 ½ – 8 triumph over their fellow Lagos side. Englishman Dorian Bulteau – playing for the first time in Africa – was pivotal to the priceless win, scoring a handful of the goals for the team, which also featured Tomi Ojora and Yasin Amusan. The Governor’s Cup went the way of Lagos RCF A+ with Argentine five-goaler Andre Crespo leading the home team’s resurgence. Nasariya were leading 4-1 as at the tail end of the penultimate third chukka, but four straight goals by RCF, three of which came off the mallet of the South American and one from Mohammed Dangote completed a remarkable turnaround.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .