 Dapo Abiodun  The state’s Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, disclosed this yesterday while addressing journalists immediately after the State Executive Council (SEC) meeting in Akure, adding that it would soon become law. According to him, “the Ondo State Executive Council today approved a draft bill of the Ondo State Security Network Agency and Amotekun Corps code-named “Operation Amotekun.”Ojogo, who noted that the council in an exhaustive session of deliberations perused every detail contained in the bill, said that the bill was ready to be transmitted to the state House of Assembly for passage. In the same vein, the Ogun State Government yesterday approved the proposal for the creation of the security network agency coded-named, Operation Amotekun.The approval was given at the State Executive Council meeting held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s office, Oke-Mosan Secretariat, Abeokuta, after an extensive deliberation that lasted close to 10 hours and presided over by Governor Dapo Abiodun. The state’s Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General, Mr. Adegbolahan Adeniran, while briefing journalists at the end of the meeting, said that the presentation of the bill before the state council followed the earlier approval by the Attorneys-General and Commissioners of Justice of the six South-West states. Adeniran assured that the State Amotekun Corp would be headed by a State Commandant, adding that the bill will also allow for collaborative efforts between the six South-West states should the need arises.He expressed optimism that the bill would get speedy attention from the state lawmakers so that the governor could give the required assent in no long time. Meanwhile, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Oyo State, Prof. Oyelowo Oyewo, yesterday said that there would a provision for bearing of arms in the Western Nigerian Security Network. The commissioner, who disclosed this in Ibadan, said: “There is a law on bearing of arms, there is a provision in the Amotekun laws that is in compliance with the extant law in Nigeria. You can’t bear arms without permit.”Oyelowo said the Amotekun corps would adhere to extant laws, including the Firearms Act and Prohibition Law. However ,the state House of Assembly will today consider the operational legal framework for the security network.This was confirmed yesterday by the Chairman, Oyo House of Assembly Committee on Communication, Qozeem Olayanju, while speaking with The Guardian. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .