There are indications that the Federal Government is making moves to resume gas supplies from the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Bonny to Port Harcourt Refinery gas facilities to ensure availability and cheaper gas for consumers. The Guardian learnt that the government has already begun the assessment needs of the facility following its determination to achieve the target and make gas sufficient for all. Port Harcourt Zonal Operations Controller of the Department for Petroleum Resources (DPR), Bassey Nkanga, disclosed this yesterday in Port Harcourt at a technical workshop with the theme, “Safe Handling, A Sure Way of Deepening LPG Penetration and Utilisation,” organised for LPG depot operators, refilling plants and retailers. He noted that already, two gas depots namely: Green Energy and Top Gas have started receiving products from NLNG and distributing to operators, but refuted allegations that gas was being moved from NLNG Bonny to Lagos and sent back to Rivers State for distribution. “We are currently receiving LPG from NLNG Bonny and it is not true that gas from Bonny is being moved to Lagos. Top Gas is one of the depots currently receiving gas from NLNG Bonny. So, most of the operators here take gas from them and that gas is one of the cleanest in the world. “The Port Harcourt refinery also has an LPG facility, so the government is looking at the possibility of more gas from NLNG Bonny coming to that facility. Currently, the government is doing an assessment of the facility, because of its seriousness in making gas available and cheaper for all and when it comes into use, it will ensure that more gas is available for use and cheaper for Nigerians. Government is doing everything possible to ensure that LPG is sufficient,” he said. Nkanga noted that the Port Harcourt Zonal office of the DPR had carried out enlightenment programme to Churches, Mosques and markets on the advantages of using LPG. He enjoined participants to use gas, saying it was safer and cheaper than stove and firewood. Also speaking, a Director of DPR, Sarki Auwalu said the Federal Government was working to ensure deep penetration of LPG in all rural communities in the country. He noted that the recent regulatory programmes and accelerated drive of transition from traditional cooking fuel to LPG were healthier, adding that DPR was changing the game to improve the lives of Nigerians. Auwalu, who was represented by DPR Head of Gas, Dr. Musa Sagi, said deepening LPG penetration would bring about socio-economic, health and environmental benefits. He added that over the years, the DPR has made the workshop interactive to provide opportunity and platform for the exchange of ideas between experts and stakeholders in the sector, especially in the safe operation of LPG refilling plants and retailing activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .