Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday arrived Maiduguri, Borno State capital to sympathise with the people over recent Boko Haram attack. “President Buhari, aboard the BBJ from Addis Ababa just landed in Maiduguri,” presidential spokesman Garba Shehu tweeted. “He is paying a sympathy visit to the government and people of Borno following the recent horrific incident in which BH terrorists killed several travellers.” Suspected Boko Haram insurgents in gun trucks on Sunday, February 9 attacked Auno Village in Borno State, killing over 10 people and destroying 18 vehicles. Auno is near Maiduguri and had suffered several attacks that claimed many lives and property in the decade- long insurgency. During the attack, the terrorists also snatched three buses loaded with passengers, including women and children, while the vehicles and many houses torched. The attack came barely three days after the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi claimed that the army had technically defeated the Boko Haram insurgents. “There is no inch of the Nigerian territory that is under the control of the Boko Haram insurgents. Since 2017, the army has technically defeated the Boko Haram terrorists and we have succeeded in taking over the areas captured from Boko Haram insurgents,” Gen. Adeniyi told journalists on Friday, February 7 while speaking on the anti-terrorism fight in Maiduguri. While Adeniyi claimed that 10 people died in the attacks, other sources claimed that the toll figure was up to 30. Confirming the incident, Yahaya Audu, a driver that escaped being killed, said when the terrorists stormed Auno, they were shouting “God is great, God is great. “The gunmen killed commuters and villagers while some of us scampered for safety, running into nearby bushes and houses. About three hours after, about 18 vehicles were confirmed destroyed by a member of Civilian JTF in Auno,” Audu said. Borno State governor Babagana Zulum urged the army to relocate its post from Auno to a further distance to secure lives. The governor cautioned the affected residents against taking the law into their hands by protesting against the incident and the army. The attack occurred when Buhari was in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia for the 33rd Ordinary Session of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (AU).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .