As Edo State 2020 governorship election draws nearer, stakeholders in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state and across the country have continued to express worry over the chances of their party retaining power. One of their major concerns is the dimension to which the ongoing face-off between the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole and the incumbent, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has gone.
 
With Bayelsa State already lost to the opposition due to the party’s inability to handle its affairs well under the watch of Oshiomhole, stakeholders’ fears for Edo have become palpable. Some stakeholders have called what happened in Bayelsa as an unforgivable act of impunity on the part of the party’s leadership led by Oshiomhole. This is more so after a similar incident cost the party Taraba State only last year. In Edo State, members blame the present imbroglio in APC on the excesses of Oshiomhole who they accuse of gross mismanagement of the national chairmanship’s office, while others liken the various crises in the ruling party, not limited to Edo, on the fact that there is lack of input of elders to the challenges confronting APC since Oshiomhole took over. In other words, Oshiomhole has been running the party in a solo fashion unlike what should happen in a democratic party, where everybody makes input for the party’s growth.  “He does not have the disposition and attitude,” lamented a member. “If nothing is done urgently, the ruling party will pay the ultimate price. It is therefore imperative of the party to urgently constitute a BoT to help Oshiomhole out in his job at least in advisory capacity.” 
 
Most party members are already losing faith in what they describe as ‘mercenary leadership method’ of Oshiomhole, saying it looks like essentially a one-man-show, claiming, “The approach of operating like a bull in a China shop has not gotten us anywhere. At best, it has set the party further on the path of perdition.” PDP’s fall pre-2014 
DESPITE several appeal to President Muhammadu Buhari to use his office to interve­ne in the party’s crises before they got out of control like what happened in Bayelsa and Oyo States, some concerned members told The Guardian, “What led to the downfall of PDP in 2015 is playing out actively in APC with the way Oshiomhole is handling the affairs of the party. Once members lose confidence in the leadership of the party, they either become inert or go elsewhere. Our party promised change; now, it cannot even manage its own affairs because of the actions and inactions of one man.”
 
On the unfortunate episode in Bayelsa State, they also said, “It must be pointed out that it is unforgivable to adopt an individual who presented five certificates with different names and when it was spotted, the party hierarchy failed to take advantage of the window to substitute the candidate.  The leader of Nigeria’s Governors’ Forum and Ekiti State governor, Dr. Fayemi Kayode, had predicted the likelihood of the disintegration of APC post-Buhari. Oshiohmole’s continuing stranglehold on the party might just be the beginning of that disintegration except for something urgent is done to ease him and stabilize the party’s structure.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .