Jones Erue The crisis in Delta State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) worsened yesterday as the chairman, Jones Erue, and his deputy, Elvis Ayomanor, continued their bickering over party matters. Erue had directed the publicity secretary, Sylvester Imonina, to suspend the Ayomanor and seven others for alleged gross misconduct and acts contravening the party’s constitution. But the deputy chairman fired back yesterday, declaring their suspension illegal. The Guardian obtained the suspension letter dated January 26, 2020, and addressed to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), on Monday at the Force Headquarters, Abuja. According to the letter, the suspension followed a Resolution dated January 18, 2020 by the Erue-led State Working Committee (SWC) of the party. It read in part, “Please be informed that in accordance with articles 21 (D) VI and 17 of the constitution of our great party, the State Working Committee (SWC) has approved the removal/suspension of the listed persons as officers of the party with immediate effect (see the attached Notice of Resolution dated January 18, 2020) namely:
Elvis Ayomanor (Deputy State Chairman), Mr. Tosan Awani (Vice Chairman, Delta South Senatorial District), Mrs. Janet Oyubu (State Woman Leader), Richard Egbo (Chairman, APC Okpe), Johnson Ohwo (Chairman, APC Uvwie), Ben Onwuka (Chairman, APC Oshimili South), Peter Umerah (Chairman, APC Oshimili North) and Cletus Elugbe (Chairman, APC Ukwuani).” But in a letter yesterday by the deputy chairman’s group, Chidi Okonji (APC Delta State Secretary) and his assistant, Ese Agiri, described the suspension by the Erue-led APC group as unconstitutional. The letter reads: “The attention of APC Delta State has been drawn to two releases signed by one Oghenelueme Sylvester Imonina (a self-acclaimed Delta APC Publicity Secretary) entitled ‘Constitution of Vacant Senatorial Positions in APC Delta State’ and ‘APC Suspends Delta State Deputy Chairman, seven others for alleged Misconduct. “The APC Delta State hereby declares the two publications above illegal, unconstitutional and null and void ab initio. Delta APC has not had any formal SWC or State Executive Committee (SEC) meeting since March 2019. Therefore, at no time was any meeting called to take these far-reaching decisions. “The purported constitution of vacant senatorial positions and suspension of Delta State Deputy Chairman and seven others is a violation of Articles 20 and 21 of the APC Constitution, particularly Article 21(D) vi which guarantees an officer’s right to fair hearing. “At no time was any complaint or allegation sent to the Delta State APC Executive Committee in compliance with Article 21(B)i. So, the two publications are illegal, unconstitutional and failing to follow due process.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .