A Kano High Court sitting in Audu Bako Secretariat, yesterday, sentenced a housewife, Rashida Saidu, to death by hanging.Rashida, who was standing a murder charged for allegedly killing her husband, Dr. Adamu Ali, a teaching staff of Federal College of Education, Kano, until his death, did not survived the trial. In his judgment, the presiding Judge, Justice A.T Badamasi ruled that the culprit is guilty of murder and thereby condemn her to death.Justice Badamasi’s judgment came exactly 25 days after Justice Yusuf Halilu of Federal capital territory (FCT) High Court, held similar death sentence to Maryam Sanda, who was convicted for murder of her late husband, Bilyaminu Bello. Prosecution Counsel, Mariam Jilbrin, who confirmed the incidence, stressed that four witnesses were presented to the court to prove their charge against the convict. However, the suspect’s lawyer, Illiya Dauda, had denied the charge after producing two witnesses, who countered the allegation of culpability in the death of late Dr. Adamu. In his judgment however, the judge held that the prosecution had proven their case beyond reasonable doubt, and that suspect was pivotal to the death of her 56-year-old husband. The Judge, therefore, sentenced her to death by hanging. Rashida, who was the second wife of her late husband, was said to have engaged the husband in hot altercation before she suddenly pushed him down from their one storey building at Dorayi Quarters, in the metropolis, Aminu Saidu, a staff of the college told our correspondent on telephone. “The incidence happened in January 2019, about a year now, at their house in Dorayi. Rashida is the younger wife and incidentally, she was our student in the college before late Dr. Adamu married her. “What we gathered from their neighbour because, we departed with the husband not too long before the incident happened, was that, on that faithful night, the husband was on phone with somebody at the corridor when the wife came and insisted she wanted to know who was on phone with her husband. “That was how the argument started and suddenly, the wife pushed the husband from a storey building and the husband died few hours at the hospital, due to the degree of the injuries sustained on his head.”Meanwhile, a relative of the deceased, who identified himself as Ali Usman, expressed satisfaction on the judgment. Ali contended that the ruling of the court has better served the deceased right justice even in his death. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .