Progressives Congress (APC) Youths Stakeholders Forum (YSF) yesterday protested to the party’s secretariat in Abuja seeking the removal of its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The protesters who wielded several placards blamed Oshiomhole for losing Bayelsa State to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Genesis Johnson who spoke on behalf of the protesters claimed that Oshiomhole had been running the affairs of the party in breach of the party’s constitution, adding that his impunity has caused the party a major loss in Zamfara, Bayelsa and Rivers states “What happens in Bayelsa State was caused by Oshiomhole and we say ‘enough is enough’. We want him to park his load and leave that office. He is not the only Nigerian that can manage that office. “Since he came into that office he has been creating problems for the party. We will suffer to win the election and at the end of the day, the opposition will go to court and collect the state. “We are not happy with his conduct and we are the party faithful we ask him to go, we put him there. Bringing Oshiomhole is like bringing a curse to the party,” he stated. The protesters vowed to sustain the protest with a view to ensuring that the National Chairman gives way for the party to move forward. Besides, the Accord Party governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Ebizimo Diriyai, has said the state was not yet out of the woods until all pending pre-election matters are concluded. Diriyai who polled 1,339 votes to emerge third in the November 16, 2019 governorship poll, urged calm amid tension in the state following last week’s invalidation of the electoral victory of APC candidate, David Lyon by the Supreme Court. “After the election last year, several pending pre-election matters are still in court and haven’t been concluded. I believe by the time the curtain is drawn, the dust settles and the end of the case, Bayelsa people will have cause to rejoice and thank God because power comes from Him alone, and He gives power to whosoever He wishes. “This power is to change lives, affect the wellbeing of people, transform destinies, bring riches to God’s people and take the state to a higher level. “Therefore, I strongly believe that in the end, Bayelsa people will be the last winners, and the will of God will prevail. So, while waiting for the end of this, let’s all remain calm, peaceful and law-abiding, and understand that we were first brothers and sisters before political parties were formed, therefore, we shouldn’t allow our political parties and leanings, bring enmity and anarchy into our dear lovely state,” he said. Meanwhile, the Bayelsa State Police Command has extended the three days dusk-to-dawn curfew imposed on Bayelsa over the protest following the Supreme Court judgment on Thursday. Commissioner of Police, Uche Anozie, who addressed journalists, said the extension was necessitated by the prevailing situation in the state. “On the other hand, in the light of credible intelligence available to the command vis-a-vis the prevailing security situation in Bayelsa State, the command has deemed it necessary to review and extend the curfew to Sunday, February 23, 2020, with effect from Monday, February 17, 2020, from 10 pm to 6 am. “Members of the public are advised to remain indoors, as security agencies will arrest anyone who violates the curfew and such outlaws will be prosecuted. They are also advised to remain calm as the command is poised to ensure the safety of lives and property in the state,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .