Lizzo – | Image: Instagram/lizzobeeating American singer-songwriter Lizzo has been countersued by three songwriters who allege that they were not properly credited for writing the singer’s hit song, “Truth Hurts.” The suit was filed by brothers Justin and Jeremiah Raisen, and Justin “Yves” Rothman, who claim “Truth Hurts” emerged from a writing session with Lizzo and Jesse Saint John that produced a song called “Healthy”. The men allege that “Healthy” contained elements that later appeared in “Truth Hurts,” including the memorable line, “I just took a DNA test, turns out I’m 100 per cent that bitch.” In October 2019, Lizzo filed a lawsuit against the songwriting trio seeking “a judicial declaration” that the Raisens and Rothman “did not co-author ‘Truth Hurts,’ and have no right to co-own that work or to share in its profits.” In their countersuit, filed yesterday (February 28) in a California federal court, the Raisens and Rothman reassert claims that they worked on a demo with Lizzo that eventually became “Truth Hurts.” The new countersuit accuses Lizzo of a “bad faith, unprincipled attempt to deny songwriting and producer credits and royalties” to the three songwriters, and alleges that “Lizzo would never have collected her Grammy Award [for Best Pop Solo Performance] but for the songwriting and producing contributions of [the Raisens and Rothman].” Lawyers for the three songwriters said in a statement: “Lizzo is a talented musician and performer who currently enjoys immense popularity based on a hit song that she did not write alone. The counterclaims we filed today seek a judgment from the court that the song that is now called ‘Truth Hurts’ originated in Justin Raisen’s home recording studio from a collaboration among our clients, Justin and Jeremiah Raisen and Yves Rothman, along with Lizzo and Jesse Saint John. When the case proceeds to trial, we look forward to sharing the sound recordings, videos, photographs and musicology that 100% prove that collaboration. Our clients deserve their fair share of the recognition and revenue that comes from collaborating on a hit song.” Lizzo’s attorneys previously said that the Raisens had received a written waiver of rights to “Truth Hurts.” When the dispute initially became public, Lizzo wrote on social media, “The men who now claim a piece of ‘Truth Hurts’ did not help me write any part of the song. They had nothing to do with the line or how I chose to sing it. There was no one in the room when I wrote ‘Truth Hurts,’ except me, Ricky Reed and my tears,” per Variety. But the countersuit asserts otherwise, stating that they have not waived their claims to either “Healthy” or “Truth Hurts,” and are thus entitled to licensing fees, royalties and other profits from the song. Watch “Truth Hurts” below: