After months of building anticipation for the impending release of the album, singer, Ayodeji Balogun better known as Wizkid have said that he is done with his much-awaited fourth studio album titled, Made In Lagos. The Ojuelegba singer on Thursday, February 20, took to his social media handle, Instagram to reveal that his long-awaited album is finally done. The message came via his Twitter account. “Finally done! So you know what that means!” Wizzy wrote. This came after he wrote that, “I ‘ve been working on my album and my spirit. Very happy for growth and God’s guidance; I love my scars more than ever.” Recalled that Wizkid started using the words Made In Lagos in mid-2018 on a couple of hashtags on social media. On March 19, 2019, during a live session on his Instagram page, @ wizkidayo, he teased snippets to a few songs, presumably made for the album, only for it to not drop. Three months later, precisely on June 4, 2019, the singer took to his Instagram stories and posted the message, “Gong” blessed me highest level of vibration! #MadeinLagos! Best I ever made. Yes Fada!” On Friday September 13, 2019, Wizkid released the first song off the album titled Ghetto Love. The video topped Nigeria YouTube charts while the audio dominated the country’s ITunes chart. Also via different Instagram posts, the Soco singer built anticipation of the impending release of the album, but it has since remained in limbo. The album title is a direct reference to his Nigerian roots that lead straight to his Shitta (Small London), Surulere, Lagos beginnings. Fans and music enthusiasts had expected the album to drop after the viral success of his single, Fever, but it didn’t. Made In Lagos is coming after monster-hit albums like Superstar (2011), Ayo (2014) and Sounds From The Other Side (2016). Though Made In Lagos release date is not ascertained, the Caro crooner had earlier stated that Made In Lagos was going to be an extended play (EP) for his record label acts. It is his attempt at regaining hold of the home scene after his foray into international waters with Sounds From The Other Side album, which was released and distributed under RCA Records/Sony Music International. It sold 6,286 units in its first week. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .