• Oyo Assembly plans to hold security summit
• ALGON alleges gov backtracks on out-of-court settlement in LG crisis
• They’re just out to heat up the polity, says PDP Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has approved the recruitment of 7,000 teachers, 2,000 non-teaching staff, 1,600 night-guards into the post-primary schools’ Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM). Chairman, Oyo State Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM), Pastor Akin Alamu, disclosed this yesterday during a press briefing on the government’s readiness to boost the state education sector by recruiting more teachers. Alamu said that the Oyo State government had invited applications from suitably qualified candidates to fill the existing vacancies in the public secondary schools, adding that all applicants are to get the application forms for free at the Oyo State TESCOM Secretariat, Ibadan, or the nearest TESCOM zonal offices in Saki, Oyo, Ogbomoso and Eruwa from Tuesday, February 11, 2020, to Monday, February 24, 2020. The chairman, however, declared that the application forms are free to all qualified applicants. Meanwhile, in a bid to stem insecurity, the Oyo State House of Assembly yesterday said it would hold a security summit soonest to tackle violence against women and children and other related matters in the state. Speaker of the House, Adebo Ogundoyin, disclosed this at the plenary session while adopting resolutions in a security-related motion moved by Adebayo Babajide, the lawmaker representing Ibadan North II Constituency. Babajide raised concern over the brutal activities of cult groups in Ibadan, which according to him, have led to the loss of lives of some residents. The lawmaker said that the development portrayed the state negatively and is threatening the peaceful atmosphere that heralded the present administration in the state. In the same vein, the lawmaker representing Ogbomosho North, Wunmi Oladeji, raised concern about the increasing rate of rape cases in the society, calling for stringent enforcement of the state law that prohibits such barbaric act. In another development, the Ayodeji Abass-Alesinloye-led  Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) in Oyo State yesterday alleged that Makinde had backtracked on the proposed out-of-court settlement. This was contained in a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan yesterday Abass-Alesinloye. The counsel to the ALGON and Oyo State government had proposed out-of-court settlement to resolve the face-off between the 68 sacked chairmen and the state government following their sack. But in his reaction, the Publicity Secretary of PDP in Oyo State, Akeem Olatunji, said: “They are the ones not ready. Their own agenda is to heat up the polity and divert the attention from the negative image of their party because they are playing politics with it. “They want to portray the governor and government of Oyo State in a bad light. It is just a game ahead of 2023. They want to make this state ungovernable at all costs. That is the assignment given to them by their paymasters. So, as far as we are concerned, the people of Oyo State are resolute to support the government of Governor Seyi Makinde and at all costs, we are going to maintain peace.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .