 Executive Director, Greensprings Schools, Lagos, Mrs. Lai Koiki  Koiki, who stressed that teaching methodology must be tailored to fit into real life issues, said contemporary students must be prepared for the future in which they will operate and function, as anything short of that would be a waste of time. She said the school would continue to provide insightful education that would enable young ones thrive in all their dealings, urging other education providers to do more for their pupils. On the celebration, Koiki said it has been 35 years of consistently providing world-class education in Africa. “We have moved from pre-school to developing the total value chain of education stretching to setting up to a teacher training college. A school, which started in 1985 with three pupils in the first week, has grown from a pre-school into five campuses. “Over the years, our teaching methodlogy has continued to change because we recognise that the 21st century children need to be prepared to follow the trend. We will continue to evolve on our methodology. We recently commissioned the career college and university readiness centre. We have started building the tech-laboratories such as the virtual reality laboratory, sea laboratory in these laboratories; students can conduct research, discover and learn about all aspects of our ecosystem. They will also explore flying using simulators because we need to prepare them for that future we need,” she said. She further used the occasion to appeal to parents and all stakeholders to look into the happenings in the public sector, alerting that a lot of kids in the country are truly in school, but learning is not taking place. Urging parents to be a partners in redeeming broken public education by brightening the corner where they are, she assured that the school would continue to through its initiatives support teaching and learning facilities to public schools within their host communities. Head of Anthony Campus, Bola Kolade, said the school management provided them with a conducive environment that made knowledge impartation seamless. She said through various initiatives, innovations and regular local and international trainings, they have passionately worked with the children and advance them to loftier heights.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .