Akwa Ibom State Government has assured the elders and stakeholders of Eket that the ongoing 18,000-seater ultra-modern sports stadium complex in the city would be completed by May 27 this year. According to the state’s Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Sir Monday Uko, the commissioning of the project would form part of the first year in the office anniversary of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s second term. Speaking with leading leaders of Eket council area, including the Chairman, Frank Archibong, Paramount Ruler, Obong Etim Abia, the leader of Eket Senatorial District, Chief Nduese Essien, President General of Ekid Peoples Union, Dr. Samuel Udonsak and that of Afigh Iwaad Eket, Pastor Godwin William, among others, the commissioner said Governor Udom Emmanuel was passionate about enhancing sports activities in the state. He stressed that the sports center, which comes with a football pitch, tartan tracks, basketball and tennis courts, among others, was being constructed with the best standard facilities and specifications, adding that the major equipment and facilities for the edifice had been imported from the best producers in the global sports industry. “As you can see, work in the facility is on course and before the rains set in, we would have been done with the roofing and laying of the turf and tracks. “The governor has given us a directive to ensure that we deliver this project on May 27 and we are also bent on ensuring that we do not compromise the standards,” he said. Uko maintained that despite series of negative criticisms, he has remained focused in his assignment to execute a world-class facility in line with the vision of the governor, adding that the best way to answer such attacks was to show results.  The chairman of Eket Local Council, Frank Archibong said he had always been confident of the sincerity of the governor towards the project, adding he had always paid impromptu visits to monitor the quality of work and has never been disappointed. “Since the state has more than one football team in the elite division, we would like one of the teams to make Eket its home ground to afford Eket people access to quality top-flight football,” he said, adding that he would also institute sporting activities for school children and youths of the area. The façade, the astro turf, the tartan tracks, and seats are ready to be installed at the stadium, the Commissioner said while showing the stakeholders round the facility. Others in the delegation were renowned Professor of Communication, Desmond Wilson, former House of Representatives member Bassey Dan Abia jr, former Commissioner Ita Umoh Udoh, permanent secretary in the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Nsudo Nsudo, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .