 Seyi Makinde of Oyo. Photo; TWITTER/SEYIAMAKINDE  A statement issued on Friday in Ibadan by Mr Taiwo Adisa, the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, quoted Makinde as saying this while on an inspection tour of a private farm, Agrited Nigeria Limited, at Fiditi. The governor said that his administration had started the process of making the state investment-friendly. He added that efforts to turn the state into an industrial destination in order for businesses to thrive were already in top gear. Makinde said that his government placed a premium on the promotion of agribusiness and would continue to assist investors in order to expand the state economy. “What the government can do is to create an enabling environment for investors; they are private people and I strongly believe we should support them to do more. “Government should not be running businesses and, even we are trying to turn over the businesses we have as a government to private people so that they can run them efficiently. “This company, Agrited Nigeria Limited, is preparing to start operation and you can also see this is going to have a very huge impact as far as the economy of the state is concerned. “And this is also because, as an administration, we said we were going to expand our economy, utilising where we have a comparative advantage, and agriculture is one of them. “So, when I see this kind of the project coming into fruition, I am excited that jobs are being created and that suppliers will soon be flocking this place. “And we have asked them what else the government can do to support them too,” he said. The governor assured would-be investors in the state to put their minds at rest about the chances of the businesses succeeding in the state. He added that the state had put in place the right security architecture and systems that would guarantee ease of doing business. Also speaking, Mr Moty Ganon, the Deputy General Manager (Operations) of the farm, expressed appreciation to the governor for deeming it fit to pay to visit the farm. Ganon sought the assistance of the state government towards the uplift of the farm. He assured the governor that the company would partner with government to promote agriculture in the state, thereby expanding its economy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .