A 28-year-old man, Princewill David, who hired Uber, a car-hailing service, from Igando area of Lagos State on Wednesday, around midnight leapt from the cab and plunged into the lagoon from the Third Mainland Bridge in an apparent suicide attempt but was rescued by the police. This incident happened barely two weeks after Daibo Davies, a resident of No. 17, Sosanya Street, Soluyi, Gbagada, in Lagos also dived into the lagoon from the Third Mainland Bridge, but unlike Davies who died, David was lucky to have been rescued. David is a resident of Tajudeen Balogun street in Moshalashi area of Igando, Lagos, where he trades in currency exchange. According to the police, the victim explained that he took the dive simply because his girlfriend who he has engaged in a long time relationship with declared that she is no longer interested. The Lagos police public relations officer, Bala Elkana, explained that the victim is presently undergoing medical attention while investigation is ongoing. The FOREX dealer was said to have told the driver to stop midway through the bridge for him to urinate, but the driver turned down his request following recent trend of passengers on suicide mission on the bridge. It was learnt that the driver increased his speed until he sighted operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) towards Adeniji before he slowed down. As soon as the driver slowed down, David was said to have jumped off the car into the lagoon where he landed on logs of wood. The policemen quickly went after him, rescued and rushed him to the hospital. David is reported to have fractured his legs and sustained other body injuries as a result of the jump.The cab driver told RRS officials that David insisted he should pass Third Mainland Bridge after he picked him up at Igando. A police source said: “He asked the driver if they were on Third Mainland Bridge when they got there and he said yes. “The man then said the driver should stop the car so he can pee but the driver refused and sped off. The driver said the man was forcing him to wait but because of reports of people jumping into the water after lying that they want to pee, he increased his speed and only slowed down when he saw RRS. “But before the driver reached where the policemen where to complain, the man ran off the vehicle and jumped into the water. One of the policemen saw him approach the railings and pleaded with him not to jump but the guy went ahead. Fortunately, he landed on logs of wood and the policemen with the help of local fishermen rescued him.“He broke his legs and sustained other injuries. He was rushed to the hospital where he is still being treated. They asked why he wanted to kill himself and he said it was because his girlfriend said she was no longer interested in him,” the source said. He was thereafter rescued and taken to Lagos State Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) from where he was referred to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), where he is undergoing treatment.Another eyewitness said: “As soon as the cab driver approached the police informing them of what his passenger was telling him, he (the victim) got down from the Volkswagen Jetta car and jumped into the lagoon but he landed on floating logs of wood. Before he jumped, one of the police officers who saw him approached the railings of the bridge and persuaded him not to jump, but he refused the pleadings.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .