Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki yesterday berated his predecessor and National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole for not informing the state government about his visit to the state despite several warnings. Obaseki, who is having a running battle with Oshiomhole over his second term re-election bid, while speaking with Journalists on the airport incident, said he (Oshiomhole) should have informed the state government of his visit to the state. The governor, who stressed that the National Chairman of APC should inform the state government of any of his visits as courtesy demands, said this when former President Goodluck Jonathan visited him at the weekend. “The former President is just extending the courtesy as someone who has served the country in the highest level and you heard what he said. There is courtesy when you are going to visit a state, you want to inform the person in charge of the state that you are coming and when you have time during a visit, you can now pay him a courtesy call. “Unlike the unfortunate incident, we have been having in Edo State. It is really sad where somebody who had been the governor of a state visiting the state and does not realise that courtesy demands that he should inform the government of his visit and the chief executive in charge of his security while in the state. “It is really sad and unfortunate that people who have served, who should know better decided to behave the way they do or behave with impunity and other sense of lawlessness,” Obaseki said. The rift between Obaseki and his predecessor has resulted in a huge crisis rocking the Edo chapter of APC as Oshiomhole, who was in Benin City at the weekend to attend the funeral ceremony of an APC Chieftain’s mother, the late Cecilia Agbonyinma, mother of Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonyinma, was booed at the Benin Airport by some APC youths. His convoy was also pelted with empty water cans as heavy security presence at the airport barred the youths from getting close to the convoy. Two trucks had barricaded the road leading to Oshiomhole’s residence and one of the trucks was later set ablaze, just as The Guardian learnt that the barricade was to prevent any political meetings from holding at Oshiomhole’s residence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .