One of the keys to staying active and profitable in the insurance industry is to investing in the customer experience. Providing customers with a comprehensive, personalised experience will help them to boost their familiarity with their insurance policies and reduce the frequency of claims, and satisfied customers are more likely to continue to make use of business, even as coverage needs change. This, for the industry, has been a new strategic approach and driver of business operations by the underwriters, especially now that the recapitalisation requirements put more pressure on the sector’s workforce. SUNU Assurances Nigeria Plc said to be an insurance company recognised for excellent client services, using cutting edge technology, there has to be motivated workforce. Besides, to ensure good business ethics to meet stakeholders’ expectations, it has announced the promotion of 37 members of staff for their hard work and dedication. The promotions, which took effect as from January 2020, is part of efforts to enhance outstanding members of staff to keep up the hard work and remain dedicated and focused on the organisation’s goals. The promotions cut across various levels ranged from Executive to Senior Manager Level, in different departments of the organisation. Speaking on this development, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Samuel Ogbodu, said it is a necessary step in rewarding high-performing employees, who have been the backbone of the company through the years. These promotions reflect SUNU Assurances’ commitment to excellence as we strive to build a high performing team that requires we recruit, retain and recognise individuals for their sterling contributions. The members of staff who were promoted exemplify our highest standards of integrity. They’re passionate team players who consistently develop new strategies that exceed clients’ expectations, while growing our business.”The company is currently in the process of finalising its recapitalization as mandated by the National Insurance Commission. Although the deadline for the recapitalisation exercise has been extended to December 2020, the company aims to hit its target before the set deadline.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .