DUBAI recently played host to some students from around the world, who participated in the under-11 World School Games (WSG) 2020. The budding stars had gathered to celebrate three days of heart-warming performances. From the athletic track and the football field to the swimming pool, the teams represented not just their schools, but also their countries with admirable poise and sportsmanship. The event was held in two categories: the U11 games, also known as the World School Primary Games and the U13 games, known as the World School Secondary Games. The team from Children International School (CIS), Lekki, Lagos, did the country proud, as it emerged overall second out of the 23 schools from across the globe to win the silver trophy, at the end of the game. The school management was elated at the children’s great display of sportsmanship in the three events (athletics, football and swimming). This earned the young athletes several gold and silver medals. Mrs. Joke Chukwumah, the school’s proprietress, said: “The excitement of the event draws from the developmental impact it leaves on the young children, who represent the future of our society. “We, therefore, appreciate the children’s sacrifices put into preparing for the competition. What better way could we have expressed it than according them an honourable welcome at the airport upon their arrival? Their zest and commitment was incredible. “Recent studies have shown that sports is a vital tool in the development of young people, as it has the potency of boosting their cerebral power and generally enabling them become more confident and successful individuals. The exposure children gain from it is another great advantage of the competition, as it allows children from different parts of the world to gainfully interact. This also goes a long way in building the young people’s confidence, preparing them to become transformative global citizens.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .