Middle Belt Forum (MBF) has commended Governor Lalong on the recent order for security agents to arrest all Fulani leaders and community leaders in Bokkos, Riyom, among others. They, therefore, urged him to set up a security outfit in the mold of South West’s ‘Amotekun’ in the state. Lalong’s order of arrest was coming against the background of bloody killings and destruction of properties across the state in the past few weeks. In a statement signed by the president, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, MBF noted the horrifying pains Plateau people had been subjected to. “The MBF fully identifies and commiserates with the Plateau State government and the people over this avoidable human and material devastation. We urge Governor Lalong to spare no effort in bringing the perpetrators of these devious murders to justice,” it stated. The forum called on Lalong to stop the unremitting blood-spattered assaults by evolving a security outfit similar to that of Amotekun as adopted by the South West to arrest further deterioration of security in the state. Describing their visit as timely, Lalong said he had done all he could by putting security apparatus in place and taking precautions with early warning signals, adding that the conflict has not stopped. “So, we have asked Ardo’s and community leaders to explain what is happening in their domains because they all cannot claim ignorance and we cannot continue like this.” Meanwhile, Church of Christ in Nations (COCIN) and Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) staged a peaceful protest yesterday in Jos, Plateau State, condemning the continuous killing of Christians in the country by Boko Haram and killer herdsmen without government batting eyelid. It was gathered that Christians from the various churches, especially COCIN and ECWA, trooped out in their large numbers in black dresses to protests. The protesters, including women and youths, carried placards with inscriptions, ‘Enough is Enough’, ‘Violence Must Stop’ and ‘Who are the Unknown Gunmen?’ Similarly, the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) declared February 2, 2020, as prayer walk nationwide to pray against the continuous killing of Christians and release of Christians in captivity by terrorists. Pastor in charge of COCIN, Raku Belleng, Jos, Rev. Budadi Taki, said the Church decided to protest the killings due to CAN directive. He said the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari was insensitive to the plight of its citizens, as it continued to ignore the security challenges facing the nation, especially in Plateau. However, the Progressives Governors’ Forum (PGF) and that of Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) on Saturday paid a condolence visit to Plateau governor, Simon Lalong and the people of the state over the recent tragedies where suspected herdsmen unleashed terror on Mangu and Bokkos leading to deaths. The visit was led by the Kebbi State governor and the chairman of PGF, Abubakar Bagudu, along with his Bauchi and Jigawa counterparts. Bagudu said the visit had become urgent in view of the negative happenings in Plateau.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .