Soldiers sit in trucks as the patrol. PHOTO: AUDU MARTE / AFP Zulum to repatriate 120,000 refugees from Niger Republic 
General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division Nigerian Army, Brig-Gen. Abdul Ibrahim, has solicited stakeholders’ support and cooperation to end Boko Haram terrorism in Borno State. The decade long insurgency had claimed many lives and property in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. He noted that the communities’ support for the military in counter-insurgency operations could end the war for peace to reign in the North East. While addressing troops at West Africa Social Activities (WASA) and end of year party at Maimalari Cantonment, Maiduguri, he said the army would re-strategise in the ongoing fight against Boko Haram insurgency. “Our troops will continue to sustain the fight against insurgents, until they are completely wiped out from the Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad region,” he said and urged troops to end the war for peace in the state. Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj-Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, said even though WASA and end of year party were for troops to display their cultural dances, the event could boost their moral in the frontlines. No fewer than 12 soldiers were also recognised for exhibiting their gallantry while fighting Boko Haram terrorists in Sambisa Forest and shores of Lake Chad. Meanwhile, Borno State Governor, Professor Babagana of Zulum has disclosed that he would repatriate no fewer than 120,000 refugees from Nigerien Diffa Province in Niger Republic to the state. He said the refugees had fled Boko Haram insurgency in five council areas of Abadam, Mobbar, Guzamala, Kukawa and Monguno, adding that Abadam had been a stronghold of Boko Haram, until it was recently recaptured by the military. While visiting the refugees in Diffa at the weekend, he noted that most of the displaced persons had been taking refuge at Bosso, Garin Wanzam and Tumur since 2014, saying most of the refugees to be repatriated are men, women and children living in camps and host communities. Addressing some refugees at Bosso, he said, “Because of Boko Haram insurgency, our people had to trek long distances by crossing Kumadugu-Yobe River to take refuge in Diffa Province.” He also disclosed that the fleeing displaced persons were running into Niger Republic for safety and shelter. According to him, the visit to the refugees is to arrange modalities for their safe return in a repatriation exercises and commended the Governor of Diffa, Isa Lameen for his empathy and compassion towards Nigerian refugees from the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .