Organisers of the 12th edition of the biennial Police Games scheduled for Anambra State have confirmed that the stage is set for the competition. The Police Games, which will see athletes compete in 20 sports,  will hold from February 29 to March 7, 2020. Tagged ‘Anambra 2020,’ the state Governor, Willie Obiano had a fortnight ago unveiled the logo and mascot of the games in Abuja preparatory to the state’s hosting right. Over 3000 athletes from the 12 Zonal Police Commands and the Force Headquarters are expected to participate in the competition with
each zone made up of three commands, except Zone Six with four and Zone Two with two commands. The athletes will compete in indoor and outdoor games, including football, taekwondo, and athletics. Speaking when the Chairman of the Nigeria Police Sports Committee, AIG, Usman Alkali led his team to confirm the readiness of the state to host the tournament at the Conference Hall, Government House, Awka  the state capital, yesterday, the Secretary to the State Government, Solo Chukwulobelu said the state was good to go. Chukwulobelu pointed out that areas not yet ready would be updated before take-off of the competition. Alkali thanked the state governor for the cooperation so far and the appreciable level of preparation on ground for the success of the games. He described sports as very important in maintaining a healthy body, hence the disposition of the governor in encouraging the competition. He said all the athletes were currently in various camps within their zones preparing intensely for the games, adding that the police had produced great athletes in national festival and Olympics. Alkali revealed that the committee has collaborated with the various sports associations through the Sports Ministry to provide graded referees and other officials for the games. Earlier, the Chairman of the Anambra State Sports Development Commission, Chief Tony Oli, had pointed out that it was a special privilege for the state to host the biannual games, stressing that economically, the state would boom. He said the state and Police Force were motivated to have Anambra State host the event on account of pervading security situation in the state. Urging the people of the state to come out en masse to cheer the competitors, Oli thanked the police for the choice of Anambra State as the host, while extolling Governor Obiano for his foresight in accepting to host the event. He said it is an opportunity for the state to discover and  expose talented youth in sports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .