• Military integrates 136 B’Haram ex-terrorists
• Senate talks tough on killings The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has called for the overhaul of the nation’s security infrastructure to end the prevailing insurgency in the land, maintaining that the current strength of the military could not defeat the Boko Haram sect. It, therefore, canvassed the retooling of the troops. Lamenting the gruesome killings of innocent Nigerians at Aunto village in Borno and other victims of armed bandits in parts of the federation, the group held that the performance of the military had shown that it needed more impetus to win the war. In a statement yesterday in Kaduna by its National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Mohammad Ibrahim Biu, ACF said it had on several occasions appealed to security agencies to be proactive, professional and strategic in the counter-terrorism fight to avoid colossal damages. The northern leaders said: “The Auno massacre could have been avoided if the necessary security measures were observed. Besides, the Nigerian Army has released 136 repentant Boko Haram terrorists under its Operation Safe Corridor (OSC) skills acquisition training for integration into the society. Over 1,400 ex-insurgents were handed over to the Borno State government after the 52-week training in Gombe state. Addressing the beneficiaries yesterday in Maiduguri, OSC’s Coordinator Maj.-Gen. Bamidele Shafa, said besides the army, the international community was ready to accept them for deradicalisation, training and integration into Borno, Adamawa and Yobe communities. However, the leadership of the Senate may have backed down on its push for the sacking of the service chiefs. The spokesman, Godiya Akwashiki, gave the hint yesterday while addressing reporters yesterday in Abuja. He said the leadership of the red chamber had found out that there was need for synergy among all stakeholders to better secure the nation. Moreso, the Senate said it would no longer tolerate the needless killings across the federation, stating that they pose serious threat to the country’s corporate existence. The lawmakers communicated this when a Bill for an Act to repeal the Police Act Cap. P19, Laws of the Federation, 2004 and enact the Nigeria Police Bill, 2019 scaled second reading yesterday. The piece of legislation was sponsored by Senator Dauda Halliru Jika (Bauchi Central). Also yesterday, the chamber observed that national parks are now becoming a comfortable abode for criminals. It, consequently, called for the mainstreaming of the National Park Service into the national security architecture in line with the resolution of the 12th National Council on Environment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .