Iworiso-Markson Immediate past Commissioner for Information and Orientation in Bayelsa State, Daniel Iworiso-Markson has expressed appreciation to former Governor Seriake Dickson for giving him the opportunity to serve the state in different capacities. In a statement he issued yesterday, he said Dickson first appointed him as Senior Special Assistant on Media, later Chief Press Secretary (CPS) and later, Commissioner for Information and Orientation. According to him, the eight years he served Bayelsa under Dickson was a watershed, as the former governor did not give anything to chance to justify the mandate Bayelsa people gave him. He described Dickson as a leader of conviction, who is passionate about the development of Bayelsa State in particular and the Ijaw Nation at large, saying he left his big footprints in the sands of time. Iworiso-Markson added that under Dickson, he learnt some valuable lessons on quality leadership, which has broadened his perspective about some socio-political issues. The former Commissioner also thanked his former colleagues in the State Executive Council for their cooperation to ensure that the government’s Restoration Agenda was fully implemented. While also thanking members of the state House of Assembly, who screened and confirmed him after his name was sent to them, the former Commissioner stressed that the synergy they created with the executive arm of government, hastened the development of the state in the last eight years. He equally thanked members of the State Media Team for their support, which ensured that he delivered on the task of projecting the image of the government and the state. Iworiso-Markson commended the directors and staff of the ministry, whom he said, always engaged him in constructive and healthy sessions in order to get the best result out of every situation. He also appreciated all journalists in the state, as well as local and international media organisations who made his job more enjoyable through their objective, balanced and fair reportage of developments in Bayelsa under the Restoration Government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .