Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission has insisted that emir of Kano Muhammadu Sanusi II, has a case to answer despite a court order restraining it. Addressing a press conference in Kano, the chairman of the commission Muhyi Magaji Rimingado argued the ruling of Justice Egwuata did not prevent the commission from executing its primary responsibility. According to him, the ruling of the federal high court has opened the commission to the option of two decisions which it will not hesitate to take. “Having studied the ruling of the Honourable Court, it is our understanding that, the Honourable Court presided by Justice O.A. Egwuata did not stop the Commission from further investigating the case and or submitting a report after hearing from the Applicant,” Rimingado said. “Consequently, the Commission has two options for consideration- to appeal the judgment as there are numerous grounds of appeal. Continue with the investigation since the case has been decided and invite Emir in compliance with the Court ruling.” Rimingado accused the emir of plotting to frustrate the commission’s investigation and frustrate the progress of the process. He, however, insisted that the commission is exploring suitable options to sustain the matter which is still under investigation. The declaration of the state anti-graft came at the instance of the Federal high court verdict which nullified indictment of Sanusi over the alleged misappropriation of N3.4 billion. The commission had submitted its preliminary investigation report on 31 May 2019, to the secretary to Kano state government, indicting the emir of misappropriating the emirate funds. In his ruling however, Justice O.A. Egwuata on Friday 21st February, 2020, quashed the commission’s preliminary investigation report and award the sum of N200,000.00. against the commission for the cost of litigation instituted by the emir.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .