The Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGA) has urged prospective golfers to strive for self-development if they desired to reach the pinnacle of their career. Stressing that self development means working on the game outside tournaments, PGA of Nigeria Director, Samson Lawal said during the opening ceremony of the 2020 Qualifying School final event at the Port Harcourt Golf Club, Rivers State, “You must develop yourself beyond this level. “Always seek for knowledge; adopt new and better ways of doing things; go digital and beyond and the sky will be your limit. The trend in golf professionalism in modern times is digitalisation in teaching/coaching; playing; merchandising and so on.” Lawal also urged the candidates to justify the investments by their sponsors through their performance, adding, “18+ ties,” which is a big plus for the candidates in qualifying practical exam for the revered professional status. Sponsor of the tournament and Chairman of Degema Local Government Area of Rivers State, Dr. Tony Phimoore, also urged the candidates to give their all in the game, saying there was much to benefit from it.“I appreciate you all trainees for wanting to take up professional golfing; but in examinations as golf that has practical and classroom work there is always tension, but what matters is your ability to manage the tension. “As a golf professional myself, l am happy to sponsor this edition, because whatever I am made of today started from my becoming a golf professional which dates back in the 1980s,” he narrated.Captain, Port Harcourt Golf Club, Joseph Taouk, on his part, was elated that the club would be hosting the PGA of Nigeria Qualifying School final for the first time. The Captain, represented by Okey Chike, the Vice Captain, admonished the professionals to give their best, adding there was need for more professional skills to elevate the game in the midst of too many amateurs in Nigeria.About 90 candidates are taking part in this year’s edition, which is the 12th in the series. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .