The Oyo State House of Assembly said it had unearthed what it called duplication of projects, outrageous contract sum, and abandonment of projects in the activities of local councils and Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) in Oyo State between May 2018 and June 2019. This was part of the findings of the House ad-hoc committee set up to review and investigate the activities of the councils and the LCDAs in the state in the year under review. According to the report, the committee discovered that some programmes and projects worth millions of naira executed by the 33 local councils and 35 LCDAs in the state had the same titles with the same amount and were repeatedly captured in the expenditure. The report also noted that expenses incurred by the authorities of the councils for the clearing and evacuation of refuse were outrageous and that there were no ongoing projects in their respective council areas. The Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, in his comment at the plenary, said it was unfortunate that the chairmen abused their offices by inflating project expenses, duplicating them as well as embarking on projects that did not have a direct impact on the populace. “Posterity will not judge us right if we fail to perform our oversight duty of serving as watchdogs and monitoring of the activities of the local councils and LCDAs. We are determined to work with Governor Seyi Makinde towards sanitising the activities of the local councils.” “We are poised to put in place an efficient and effective local council system that will not only improve the system but also  engender robust and impactful development at the local and community levels. Other lawmakers in their contributions frowned at the activities of the council chairmen. However, in a swift reaction, the embattled Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State Branch described as laughable and a parliamentarian comedy of error the recent allegations against its members by the Oyo State House of Assembly. A statement yesterday by ALGON Chairman, Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, said the association rejected the allegations against its members as it smacks of political partisanship and group bias, further describing it as an unnecessary comic relief, unconstitutional, illegal, null and void. Abass-Aleshinloye said the allegation would not divert ALGON’s attention or the democracy-loving people of Oyo State and all discerning Nigerians from the core issue of lawlessness, illegality and the strange dictatorship unleashed by the present administration in the state while the House fiddled,  was intimidated and later recruited into the coup against grassroots government in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .