 [FILES] Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr. Photo: NGSUPEREAGLES  Former Nigeria Captain, Henry Nwosu has advised the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to compel the Super Eagles’ coaches to revert to the former format of preparation for national team assignments, where the national team camp opened two to three weeks with domestic players before the arrival of the overseas-based stars. Nwosu, who said the format allowed the coaches unfettered observation of the home-based players, believes it is the only way the coaches would see the talent in the local lads. Reacting to the Sierra Leone Football Association’s (SLFA) website report that they started preparations for the 2021 AFCON qualifier on February 13 at the SLFA Academy with over 90 percent of the 43 invited home-based players, Nwosu said it showed the Leone Stars’ determination to get a favourable result in the game. He recalled that during his days in the national team, the squad was centred on domestic players, which gave the coaches enough opportunity to blend and work on the tactical approach to a game even before their overseas-based counterparts joined them. “The way Sierra Leone is preparing for the AFCON qualifier against the Super Eagles a month to the tie is the right step to take for a nation that is ready to build a solid national team. “During my days, national team coaches didn’t wait for the overseas-based players to be available before they opened camp. The national team manager had a special arrangement with the home-based coaches for the early release of players. “The overseas-based players at that time came to camp to fight for shirts. They were not promised automatic shirts.” “Developing players from the home front is the hallmark of a good footballing nation. The NFF should deploy strategies that would help the home-based players grow,” he said. Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr will release the list of players for the game against Sierra Leone next week. The match will hold at Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba on March 27. [AD] To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .