Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has described the failed litigation seeking to disqualify him over his alleged conviction in the United States of America as “a mere distraction from sponsored irritants.” Omo-Agege said the failed attempt to remove him as Deputy Senate President could be traced to the 2023 political intrigues. It will be recalled, Justice Othman Musa of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court in Bwari Abuja, dismissed the suit challenging his eligibility over an alleged conviction in the United States of America last week. The court held that the case against Omo-Agege in the U.S. was merely a non-criminal trial and awarded N1million fine against the claimants, a hitherto unknown Incorporated Trustees of Patriotic Youth Organisation of Nigeria for wasting the time of court. Omo-Agege who spoke at the weekend in Abuja when traditional rulers, elders and religious leaders from Urhobo nation visited him, indicated that he has put all such distractions behind him. According to him, some faceless political foes were bent on distracting the National Assembly leadership from the path of cooperation with the executive arm of government to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people. Speaking on the matter for the first time since the court judgment, Omo-Agege told the Urhobo leaders that sponsors of mischief and the irritants they used against him miscalculated. He said he was not a politician who could be intimidated by anybody, adding that for those enemies at home, they know him very well, adding, “I am sure that those who participated did so with cover from others outside the state who really did not know me well. “If they knew, like the local enemies that I am not easily intimidated, I am very sure they wouldn’t have gone on this fruitless voyage. “This is not the first time we have been through this; I pray this is the last time. But to the extent they chose not to make it the last time, they also have me to contend with because I don’t suffer fools gladly. “For those who don’t know, they will get to know in the not too distant future.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .