 Minister of Interior, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Aregbesola. Photo: TWITTER/RAUFAREGBESOLA  At a time when the internal dynamics not adding up are accompanied by a general sense of existential angst in the land, a sensitive open-door policy such as visa-on-arrival deserves better handling than some extra-logical optimism that Abuja has been rationalising.
 
For the purpose of clarity, we understand that the integration of the African region via connectivity and intra-migration of person is noble and commendable as it is being explained. After all, a united and interdependent continent is certainly more viable than a pocket of weak economies struggling in silos. Therefore, a renewed determination at diplomatic cooperation through the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) and Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) is welcome.  One is inclined to ask: what are the priorities of Nigeria behind the visa-on-arrival policy for all Africans? Buhari at the inauguration of the new visa policy 2020 said it was intended to attract business opportunities, tourism and integrate Africa. Specifically, the president said: “The policy aims to fast-track innovations, Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), specialised skills and knowledge from overseas to complement local capacity without compromising national security.”  But a closer scrutiny will show that though the goals are indeed necessary they are not sufficient within the dominant realities. In global context, one of the main bases of liberal entry policies is its tourism potential. Most visited destinations like Hong Kong, London, Paris, Dubai, and Tokyo, to mention a few, can attest to the fact that tourism is a money-spinning export commodity. Nigeria, the most populous black nation with a year-round good climate for tourism is not even among the top 10 most visited countries in Africa. Morocco, Rwanda, Egypt, Kenya, Zimbabwe, and Ghana have far better earnings from tourism’s yearly turnover. Therefore, the Federal Government is making a smart move to ease visa conditions to bolster tourism earnings. Correct as the reasoning sounds, the problem is that a friendly climate and executive hunch are not enough. Tourists’ destinations, just like FDI, are enticed by attractions, accessibility, and security, all of which Nigeria lacks in varying proportions at this time. Besides churches, music and Nollywood movies that have assumed the export lives of their own, tourists’ destinations are still not attractive or accessible for even the locals to see and tell. Perhaps, because of lack of imagination by state actors and concerned authorities, a handful of natural sites that are the most sought-after in contemporary tourism marketing, are still lying fallow and unpackaged to be sellable as our unique contribution to the fastest growing industry in the world. And sadly nothing concrete beyond rhetoric is being done to address these challenges at the moment.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .