 President-General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, John Nwodo (left); Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Anglican Communion, Emmanuel Chukwuma; Enugu and Ebonyi governors, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and David Umahi; Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano; Deputy Governor of Imo State, Prof. Francis Njoku; Governor Okieze Ikpeazu of Abia State and representative of South-East traditional rulers, Igwe Lawrence Agubuzu, during the South-East geo-political zone security summit in Enugu… yesterday.						       PHOTO: NAN  Governors of the South-East have said that they would not key into any security arrangement that does not take into consideration the peculiar needs of the zone, stressing that the region would embrace the Federal Government’s community policing as an effective tool of protecting the communities. Chairman of the South East Governors’ Forum, Dave Umahi, spoke yesterday at the Southeast security summit organised by Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu in Enugu.
Presenting the communiqué of the event, the Ebonyi State henchman said traditional rulers, community leaders and town union executives would be charged with the responsibility of selecting those who would serve in the community policing, stating that it would make it more effective. He pledged that the governors of the zone would take full responsibility of providing security equipment and facilities for the community policing in their respective states, adding that they would work in synergy with the police in the region. In his contribution, the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who decried the multiple checkpoints in the area, called for their reduction, observing that they were creating tension. He lamented that the situation had become so bad that, “Army and police officers now recruit little children who collect tolls from drivers for them while they are busy playing draft.”He appealed to the police hierarchy to conscientiously re-examine its posting policies that had “ensured that Igbo officers are not allowed to head commands in the south East zone. Nwodo said the practice had continued to create the impression that Igbo officers in the force were not good enough to be entrusted with responsibilities.Speaking on behalf of the religious leaders, Archbishop, Enugu Ecclesiastical Province, Most Revd. Emmanuel Chukwuma, lamented the destruction and displacement created in the zone by marauding herdsmen branding AK47 rifles.He said: “They have continued to kidnap our priests; our farmlands are not safe anymore. They kill people in their homes and cause all manner of problems in the name of cow rearing. We are no longer comfortable with the development and we are asking the Federal Government to declare them terrorists. They have terrorised us enough. A time shall come when we will say no to this level of provocation in the South East zone.” Chukwuma also deplored the numerous blockades in the area.Earlier, IGP Mohammed asked the zone to embrace government’s community policing strategy, stressing that it was key in solving current security challenges in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .