Prince Harry | The Jakarta Post Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II asked to be introduced as just “Harry” at an event on Wednesday, starting a final round of public engagements before stepping back from his royal duties with his wife, Meghan. The Duke of Sussex will stop using his royal title from the end of March when they stop working their royal duties. It is however revealed in a conference in Edinburgh that he is already taking a more informal approach.
“He’s made it clear that we are all just to call him Harry, so ladies and gentlemen — please give a big, warm Scottish welcome to Harry,” host Ayesha Hazarika said in her introduction. The prince has faced some accusations of hypocrisy for using private planes during his advocacy actions to combat global warming but he insists he mostly travels via commercial flights. He used his remarks in Edinburgh to warn of the risks of huge increases in tourists at key locations, which he said could lead to pollution, overwhelm local communities and drives out wildlife. Harry who is sixth in line to the throne announced in January that he and his wife wanted to step back from their royal positions and this rocked the monarchy. The couple revealed plans to split their time between Britain and Canada after complaining about media intrusion and expressing their desire to be financially independent. Harry arrived in Edinburgh by train on Tuesday evening without his wife, Meghan and baby son Archie. He will be in London on Friday to meet US rock singer Jon Bon Jovi, who is recording a special song for the prince’s Invictus Game Foundation for military veterans. They will meet at Abbey Road Studios, where The Beatles recorded most of their albums and where Bon Jovi is currently recording his song with a choir made up of wounded veterans and serving personnel. In a BBC interview about the event, the singer joked that following his exit from frontline royal life, Harry should be known as “the artist formerly known as Prince”. The musician Prince took this title after eschewing his name in favour of a symbol. Harry and wife Meghan will join the queen for a Commonwealth Day service on March 9 at Westminster Abbey, which is expected to be their last official appearance royals.