 Jennifer Agunloye  Childhood Influence 
My childhood did prepare me for this even though I didn’t realise it then. I was overweight as a child and that made me grow up with a lot of self- esteem issues. Though I was lucky to have encountered the right set of people who saw my potential and nurtured it, I noticed that a lot of girls who were growing up with terrible self-images for different reasons were settling for less in life and this was putting them at a disadvantage. This was one of the inspirations for going all out with our organisation. I also went to school with a lot of girls with amazing potentials, but who have just refused to dream because of the environment they were growing up. There, women were just considered just good enough to be wives and mothers, so any woman with a dream was considered abnormal.  Impact of our activities in Northern Nigeria
Through our March Against Hunger Project we’ve been able to enlighten over 3000 families on the importance of educating their female children. One of our major success stories is Maman Amira, the mother of a crippled girl who we met living in the street during our march against hunger. We fixed the roof of her house and empowered her to start up a business. Now, Maman Amira has a poultry business that is empowering six women through a community-based cooperative and Amira is now in school preparing to sit for her final exams. Also, through our Safe Space Program, we’ve provided indepth leadership and entrepreneurship training to over 1000 girls and have so far empowered over 50 girls like Kudirat, who has now registered her business and reached over 3000 families.  Our empowerment programmes 
The Support Her Effort (SHE) project was inspired by one of our March Against Hunger beneficiaries who had given up on her business after facing some challenges, but decided to pick it back up after we spoke to them about the importance of entrepreneurship. An elderly woman with the responsibility of training her grandchildren because their father (her oldest son) is epileptic, she collected some goods on credit and started all over. After I spoke to her, I just realised there are many like this woman who are making intense efforts to keep their businesses alive so they can make ends meet. We decided to start supporting such women to encourage them and boost their businesses. The project selects one woman a month and, at the end of the year, we select the most outstanding one among them who has done amazingly well with the investment and give her an even bigger investment. Our goal is to increase the frequency to one woman weekly and take the project to the next level of training these women on how to grow their businesses and select at least 10 women annually to qualify for more funding.  Being a Woman of Rubies
I think what makes me a Woman of Rubies is my passion. My deep-seated passion to see women rise, to see women break barriers, overcome limitations and be all they can be. I see it as an honour to be gifted with such drive to contribute to women’s development in my own way, and it’s such a blessing to be able to do it in Northern Nigeria. Reading about the qualities that women of rubies should have, I felt so honoured to see that I have come to embody some of these qualities over the years through my experiences and God’s grace. It’s such a privilege thinking about it. I don’t take it lightly in any way.
 
Dear Marginalized Woman
My final word for marginalized women is this: it won’t always be like this. A time is coming when you will be everything you dream you’d be. A time is coming when you will get an education with ease, you will have a voice in things that concern you and your children. You will give expression to all the gifts that God has blessed you with without being afraid or ashamed. The time is coming when you won’t be careful to raise your head high and be confident in yourself and in your dreams. That time is close. So, don’t give up yet. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .