• Claimed Nigeria’s Deficit Was 1.5dm Tonnes
• FEPSAN Says Nigeria Produces More Than Enough President Muhammadu Buhari rejected a request by the Minister of Agriculture, Sabo Nanono, to grant an importation waiver to some fertiliser companies to import about 1.5 million metric tonnes to bridge the purported demand and supply gap because Nigeria can meet its demand, The Guardian investigation has revealed. The minister’s claim of a deficit of 1.5million tonnes was deflated by the National Coordinator and Project Manager, TAK Continental Limited and Executive Secretary of the Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), Mr. Gideon Negedu, who told The Guardian that Nigeria has over 30 fertilizer-blending plants, with production capacity of four to five million metric tonnes yearly, adding that Nigerian farmers need about 1.0 million tonnes of NPK and 400,000 tonnes urea yearly.  Negedu pointed out that there was no reason to import blended fertiliser into the country, as Nigeria is even in a position to supply fertilizer to other African countries at the moment. The import substitution industrialisation policy of the government since the Dr. Goodluck Jonathan-led administration has de-emphasised importation of finished fertiliser into the country and the current administration has taken the policy further by encouraging more investments in blending facilities.  He insisted on all players being given a level playing ground, adding: “If they want to give waiver or concession, it should be industry-wise and all participants must have equal opportunities.  “These are part of the things we face. How do you plan for the practitioners without carrying them along?”
 
Meanwhile, a source in Abuja, who pleaded anonymity, told The Guardian that the minister never granted a waiver, because he did not have the power to do so. “What happened was that the minister wrote to the President to grant a waiver to about seven fertiliser companies to import 1.5 million tonnes of fertiliser to bridge the demand gap, but unfortunately, the request was turned down by the President,” the source explained.
 
The minister was said to have been invited by the Chief of Staff to the President, Abbah Kyari, to explain why he made the request, where he explained that it was important for the country to import, pending when local production would be able to meet up with the demand.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .