 Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi  Ugwuanyi made the donation at the 82 Division 2019 West African Social Activities (WASA) held at the division’s Parade Ground, Abakpa Military Cantonment Enugu. The governor also reiterated the commitment of the state government in supporting the Nigerian Army and ensuring that the army achieved its constitutional mandate. “WASA provides avenue for officers, soldiers, their families, friends and well-wishers to come together, relax and enjoy the rich culture and heritage of the country. “Enugu State has a long lasting relationship with the Nigerian Army and the army had been instrumental to the enviable positive security record of the state. “I must commend the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and the General Officer Commanding (GOC) the Division for providing security to the state. “The 2019 General Elections success in the state is attributable to the robust support of the Nigerian Army. “Your efforts to provide security in the state and sacrifices you pay daily to keep the country secured are highly appreciated,’’ he said. Earlier, Igwe Lawrence Agubuzu, Chairman of Traditional Rulers’ Council of Enugu State, called on Nigerians to support the Nigerian Army as security was everybody’s business. Agubuzu noted that the army needed the moral and spiritual support of all Nigerians to deal decisively with myriad of security challenges confronting the country. In an opening remark, the GOC of 82 Division, Maj.-Gen. Lasisi Adegboye, thanked the COAS, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Burutai, for his fatherly support which led to the successes recorded by the division. Adegboye also lauded the COAS for payment of the death benefits of fallen soldiers, adding that he was committed to ensuring that death benefits was paid to assist the families of fallen soldiers in the division.He said; “In 2019, various training programmes, exercises and sporting activities were conducted with resounding successes. “Exercise Atilogwu Udo 1 was a huge success and it had helped to chase criminals out of the division’s Area of Responsibility. “We also did a lot of infrastructural work, which included renovating existing structures in the barrack; putting new medical and office facilities meant to improve personnel output generally.’’ The GOC thanked Enugu State people and government for their support to the division in the year.Highlights of the event were presentation of awards to four soldiers that performed exceptionally well during Exercise Atilogwu Udo 1 as well as 10 soldiers that performed exceptionally well in their various units within the Division. Others included display of cultural heritages, tug-of-war and sitting up of a bonfire.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .