New Bayelsa State governor-elect, Diri Douye, was yesterday charged by the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to immediately commence a genuine reconciliation of all Bayelsans particularly members of the party. National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, gave the charge when Diri presented his Certificate of Return to the leadership for blessings in Abuja before heading to Yenagoa. Secondus, who received Diri along with other members of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC), noted: “This victory is dedicated to God Almighty because as we know, power cometh from God not from man and in this case, it was a long journey to freedom.” To achieve genuine reconciliation, he urged Diri to establish a truth and reconciliation committee, adding that there should be no “victor nor vanquished.” “Now is the time for us to come together especially the people of Bayelsa State. It is not in the falling, but it is in the rising according to Mandela. This is the time to establish the truth and reconciliation committee for the benefit and genuine reconciliation of all Bayelsans. There will be no victor, there will also be no vanquished. Read More: PDP’s Diri sworn in as Bayelsa governor, sues for peace “So, we urge the new governor-elect and deputy governor-elect to quickly go to work, embrace everyone regardless of their leanings or parties because this is what PDP represents,” he added. According to Secondus, the PDP stood for Rule of law. “We believe in the rule of law and our matters are very clear. If it is on point of law, no argument, no protest; if it is not a point of law, we will ask a question,” he noted. The PDP further charged Diri to remain on the side of God, saying, “God has given you power, not man. So go and be a good ambassador of the nation and your state and the party.” Specifying the terms of the reconciliation, Secondus said: “There shall not be rancour. Call all the elders, all the youths of Bayelsa together to work. It is not the party; the party is important, it is the platform. But the service you are going to render to the people of Bayelsa should be uppermost in your mind and that is how to build a nation.” He declared that Nigeria could be rebuilt through genuine efforts to bring people together. “We believe that our nation is in disarray. Our nation is in distress but with the calibre of yourself, the governor-elect and the deputy governor-elect, we will begin to heal the wound. We will begin to rebuild this nation and bring everyone together.” The PDP said it stood for the unity of the country, adding: “We stand for all-inclusiveness. The PDP stands for the future of the younger generation of our country.  We are into work with you and we believe that as you go back now for the swearing-in ceremony, all Bayelsa people will give you all the necessary cooperation.” In a brief remark, Diri told the party leaders present that because the victory was for the party, he came to present the Certificate of Return for blessings. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .