The Bayelsa All Progressives Congress (APC) Youths Vanguard for Real Change has said the party leadership led by Adams Oshiomhole is to blame for foisting a candidate with forged credentials on the state chapter of the party. It also condemned the continued assault by thugs on the justices of the Supreme Court over the February 14, 2020 judgment that sacked APC governor-elect, David Lyon and his deputy, Biobarakumo Degi for supplying false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Suspected thugs had reportedly besieged the Abuja home of the lead judge, Justice Mary Odili, calling her names for heading the panel, which nullified APC’s governorship victory in Bayelsa State. While speaking to journalists in Abuja yesterday, Spokesman of the group, Comrade Johnson Dume, said the APC leadership under Oshiomhole, should apologise to its supporters for the embarrassment the nomination caused them, rather than grandstand.“Why blame Justice Mary Odili? What is her role in our party’s screening and primaries? Is she the one who asked us to field a candidate with fake certificates? “We should be careful not to worsen an already bad situation. People are beginning to see APC as a party that lacks due process and a political group of fraudsters.“It was the same Justice Mary Odili who they now malign that gave judgment on February 13, 2020h to affirm Lyon and Degi’s candicacy. The sudden about-turn projects us as sore losers,” he said. He asked APC faithful to also hold Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva responsible for the party’s loss at the court saying, “We have it on good authority that Sylva knew about Degi’s forged documents, yet he went ahead to field him so that APC might lose.”The Supreme Court had on February 15, 2020, nullified the election of Lyon and his running mate, Degi, on the ground that the latter forged his certificates and affirmed Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Duoye Diri as governor.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .