A power evacuation project designed by the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), may address epileptic power supply in the country, especially in parts of the northern region, as the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC), yesterday committed   N1.04billion to ensure speedy completion of the electricity network initiative. Designed to evacuate power from the two new 150MVA 330/132KV and two other 60MVA 132/33KV transmission substations at Akurba being built by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), the move would step down bulk power for TCN from the 330KV Ikot-Ekpene-Ugwuaji-Apir-Jos transmission line. The Guardian had reported that challenges relating to stranded power had resulted in whopping losses of over N1.2 trillion by the generation companies (GenCos) in the past five years. Indeed, the challenges facing the Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry (NESI), have led to the wastage of about 42,160.87 megawatts (MW) of electricity out of the 88,566.43MW generated by GenCOs in 2018. Speaking during a visit to the site, Managing Director of AEDC, Ernest Mupwaya, expressed the hope that the project would be completed before the end of March. Mupwaya said: “The TCN project will provide a massive boost in power supply potential to Nasarawa State up to southern Kaduna and even parts of Plateau State. There will be more hours of electricity available on the network, and a significant improvement in the voltage profile of the state. “However, if we do not play our own part, that power will not get into people’s homes. We are putting all efforts at ensuring the project is completed in good time. We will leave no stone unturned.” Mupwaya was optimistic that when the facility and AEDC substation are completed, customers in the region would   enjoy better power supply that will boost the quality of life, and catalyse socio-economic growth and development in the state. The evacuation project includes the construction of four 33KV feeders, a new 5MVA injection substation for the rice mill in Lafia, take-off bays for the new two units of 60MVA 132/33KV Akurba Transmission Station in Lafia, the rehabilitation of existing 33KV and 11KV distribution lines across the state, and the relief and upgrading of distribution transformers. It also includes the upgrade of two units of 1MVA injection substations to 5.0MVA at Awe and Keana areas, and the upgrade of a 2.5MVA injection substation at Obi to a 5MVA injection substation. Reportedly, since the project started in September 2019, over N160m million has been committed to key constructions in the first phase. With its completion, customers in Akwanga and environs will begin to enjoy power supply directly against the present situation where they split their power supply with Lafia.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .