Woman taking soft drink | Season Apartments Excessive sugar is bad for health. Some sources of sugar are worse than others and sugary drinks are by far the worst. Below are 11 reasons why sugary drinks are bad for your health according to Healthline. Sugary soda contains no additional nutrient, just sugar It adds nothing to your diet except excessive amounts of added sugar and unnecessary calories. Sugar and acid in soda is bad for dental health It is a well-known fact that sugary soda is bad for your teeth. Soda contains acids like phosphoric acid and carbonic acid. These acids create a highly acidic environment in your mouth, which makes your teeth vulnerable to decay. Sugary drinks tend to make you fat You tend to consume more total calories if you drink soda, as liquid sugar doesn’t make you feel full. Sugar-sweetened beverages are associated with weight gain. Sugar increases belly fat accumulation High consumption of fructose makes you accumulate belly fat, a dangerous type of fat linked to metabolic disease. Large amount of sugar is turned into fat in the liver Sucrose and high-fructose corn syrup are about 50% fructose, which can only be metabolized by your liver. Excessive amounts may contribute to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Sugar-sweetened beverages may be the leading dietary cause of Type 2 diabetes A recent study, which looked at sugar consumption and diabetes in 175 countries, showed that for every 150 calories of sugar per day — about 1 can of soda — the risk of type 2 diabetes increased by 1.1%. In fact, drinking as little as one can of sugary soda per day has been consistently linked to an increased risk of type 2 diabetes. A large body of evidence links added sugar consumption — particularly from sugar-sweetened beverages — to type 2 diabetes. Sugary soda can cause insulin resistance Excess fructose intake may lead to insulin resistance, the main abnormality in metabolic syndrome. Sugar may cause leptin resistance Animal trials suggest that a high-fructose diet can drive leptin resistance. Eliminating fructose may reverse the problem. Sugary beverages may increase the risk of heart disease Multiple studies have determined a strong link between sugary beverages and heart disease risk. Soda drinkers have a higher risk of cancer Observational studies suggest that sugar-sweetened beverages are linked to an increased risk of cancer. Sugar consumption is linked to increased risk of dementia Rodent studies note that large doses of sugary drinks can impair memory and decision-making capabilities.