Omotola Elizabeth Omotola, nee Olufa, popularly known as Liz’Mo, is not a greenhorn in show business. The University of Lagos-trained artiste has been singing from childhood, when she was a member of the children’s choir of her church. And growing up, she decided to make a career out of it. Though blessed with the gift of singing, she enrolled at the Musical Society of Nigeria (MUSON), and later, some other music schools across Lagos to hone her skill and perfect both the theory and practice of musicianship. She said: “Singing is what I have been doing and will continue to do. It’s a career option for me. It’s not just something I want do for a while; it’s what I do for a living. That is what I love. You could see me singing from morning till night.” Liz’Mo first tested the waters with her debut CD titled, Awesome God, where she eulogised the name of God. Not resting on her oars after her first successful outing, the artiste, late last year, went back to the studio. Unlike her first outing, the second CD has a video, whose shooting is reaching conclusive stages. What genre of music are you into? “I sing gospel music fully because that is my calling. I believe God has called me to use my music to bring light to the world. It is not just about church music, as it were, but cuts across all interests. “You may hear me play hip pop, reggae, funk and others, the major thing is the message of the song. So, my songs cut across genres, but centre on the gospel,” she said. Not ending at these genres, Liz’Mo revealed that she would also use inspirational, motivational, love songs, as well the dancehall music to spread the gospel. On most gospel music being noisy and copying from one another, Lizzy, as she is often called, disclosed that she is going to carve a niche for herself with her own distinctive style. Initially skeptical if her first CD, Awesome God, would be accepted in the market because of the nature of the songs, Liz’Mo disclosed that she was surprised at the patronage, saying years after its release, people are still demanding for it. She added, “good music cannot be hidden from people, they will surely locate it.” With the intention to make the society a better place for all, aside from preaching the gospel, Liz’Mo disclosed that she does not just write songs for the fun of it, but rather the Holy Spirit inspires her to write. “I write songs when I am inspired and mostly when I am praying. So, I believe the content of what I write has depth and touches lives. The Holy Spirit inspires me, because once you have a relationship with God, inspiration flows. Most times, the songs drop into my mind when I am praying. You can imagine the impact when such songs are released, they touch lives and speak to the souls of listeners.” On her parents’ support, she said: “It’s being amazing, though my dad is late, my mom has been a pillar of inspiration and support. She is my number one supporter.” Liz’Mo disclosed that she almost missed her calling, when she diverted to catering business, but had to do a detour when it dawned on her that God gave her the musical gift to preach the gospel and touch lives. Relaying her journey so far, she disclosed that God has been helping her, saying God does not give a vision without a provision. According to her, there are still people in the industry, whose major interest is to positively impact on the society and not necessarily for pecuniary gains. Speaking on her challenges, she said: “ I don’t see them as anything that could debar you from getting to your goal in life, because any destined person would surely meet some obstacles on his/her way. The truth is, once you don’t look at the obstacles, you will definitely get to where you are going to. Despite the fact that I am sometimes scared of what I want to do, I just keep moving until I achieve my goal.” Commenting on the acceptance of gospel music in the country, Liz’Mo disclosed that the genre is gaining ground compared to the past. She noted that there are now more great names that upcoming ones are looking up to. Advising other upcoming artistes, she urged them to be focused and produce good lyrics that will take them to the top, adding that music is a universal thing and good music can never be hidden. 