Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Babafemi Ojudu (right); Chairman of the occasion, Olusegun Osoba; author of Media on My Mind, Songs of Childhood and Uneven Steps, Lanre Idowu, his wife, Olawunmi and Senior Technical Assistant to the President on Media, Louis Odion during the presentation of the books in Lagos…yesterday. MRA tasks govt on use of radio for national peace
Former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba, has urged journalists to reiterate the epic struggles they faced in birthing and sustaining Nigeria’s democracy. Osoba, who was special guest of honour at the public presentation of Lanre Idowu’s books yesterday in Lagos, said journalists should celebrate and respect themselves, adding, “Lanre has set the tone and journalists must write on media struggles in shaping the nation’s democracy.” He stated that it had become imperative to have such a documentation to enable members of the public to know the role the media played in entrenching democratic governance in the country. While congratulating the author on the books, Osoba argued that the author only charted a cause, which other media professionals should follow. “There is the need for Nigerians to know the roles media organisations, such as Tell, Tempo, Newswatch and other newspapers played in the struggles that ensured that Nigeria achieved democracy. We must provide history. Reuben Abati, who reviewed Media On My Mind, said the author raised many questions in the book regarding Nigerian policies and history in the last two decades, which should generate further reflections on the state of the media practice and the challenges of democratic governance in Nigeria. While reviewing Uneven Steps, Lekan Sote, said the book is a history document on the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE), “it tends to answer questions such as, who is an editor? Responding, Idowu said journalists do a lot of work, but are often not appreciated, adding, “We must continue to raise the bar and not hold ourselves to any inferior work.” Besides, Media Rights Agenda (MRA) has called on the Federal and state governments to take advantage of radio in developing comprehensive strategies to overcome the religious, ethnic and other differences that have divided Nigerians and impeded the country’s socio-economic and political advancement. The group stated this while commemorating this year’s World Radio Day yesterday, noting that radio remained the most powerful medium for reaching diverse communities and as such, government should support the sector to enhance its effectiveness as a platform for uniting Nigerians across various divides. MRA’s Programme Director, Ayode Longe, urged government at all levels to work with radio stations operating in their areas of authority to promote and uphold diversity in their newsrooms and on the airwaves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .