 Chairman, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Wahab Alawiye-King (left); with other stakeholders during a courtesy visit to him in his office recently.  The programme manager, Francesca Adeola Olusola said during a visit to the office of the state chairman, Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB)  that the ENGINE programme is a DFIF/UKAid supported intervention under the Girls Education Challenge and is also been implemented in three other states, including Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Kano and Kaduna States. “To improve the girl’s educational outcomes, the programme partners with the Lagos State Agency for mass education in the area of teacher capacity, strengthening and delivery of literacy and numeracy sessions.  Girls received classes for six hours each week in learning centres within their communities where they are taught literacy, numeracy, financial education and life skills. “To improve their livelihoods, the programme has linked over 800 girls to vocational skills training within their communities, girls have also been linked with employability training which has enabled them to get jobs and internship placement. Girls are currently learning refrigeration repairs, barbing, catering and makeup among other skills, which empowered them to make a living for themselves. Over 400 were supported to write the West African School Certificate Examination (WAEC) and the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board  (JAMB) after a three-month intensive coach. Olusola identified participants as girls who had dropped out of school before the age of 18, married before the age of 18, never been to school, orphans or those who have sick parents. So far, the programme manager said 89 girls have completed the AME basic assessment, which would enable them to get a primary school leaving certificate for the first time in their lives while 40 others who wrote WAEC and JAMB have secured admission into tertiary institutions. “Forty-five head teachers of primary schools and supervisors have also been engaged on the programme to monitor the quality of teaching and ensure that the schools are being used for teaching and learning purposes only.” The chairman, Olawale Alawiye-King applauded the group for complementing the efforts of the government in the area of education, adding that the present administration is also building the capacity of her teachers. “The state had completed training for the first batch of 2,400 teachers under the Excellence in Child Education and Learning (EKO EXCEL) project and was set to train a second batch of 2,400 teachers. The training was aimed at successfully developing more highly skilled teachers by training, supporting and motivating existing government teachers to succeed in their classrooms. “Eko EXCEL would also help the government, monitor the rate of school drop -outs, digitalise learning and monitor issues of the girl child. Furthermore, Eko EXCEL promotes modern techniques and new technologies to boost learning outcomes. He said the board was open to collaboration with the ENGINE II programme to further strengthen basic education. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .