To commemorate the 115th anniversary of Rotary International, District 9110, which covers Lagos and Ogun states, will tomorrow host the 2020 World Peace and Understanding Day ceremony at Wheatbaker Hotel, Ikoyi. The event with the theme: ‘Promoting World Peace and Understanding Through Food Security,’ will have a renowned financial expert, Bismarck Rewane, as the keynote speaker. Discussants include: Dr. Biodun Adedipe, chief consultant, Adedipe Associate Limited; Mr. Mezuo Nwuneli, Managing Partner, Sahel Capital Agribusiness Managers Limited; Dr. Aliyu Samaila, Director, Agribusiness Feed The Future Nigeria and Navy Commodore Daniel Atakpa, a blue economy expert. According to Rtn. Larry Agose, chairman, Organsing Committee, the ceremony will be chaired by Dr. O. Olumide Phillips, Chairman, Board of Governors, Dowen College. Meanwhile, the District 9110 Governor, Dr. Jide Akeredolu, has said 26 women die of cervical cancer daily in Nigeria, while calling for an urgent need to tackle the second commonest disease that kills more than breast cancer. He made this known at the Rotary District Team Training Seminar (DTTS) at the weekend, where he said sensitization and immunization have kicked off already and about four million women are eligible for the vaccine. “District 9110 is taking it up by going to different schools to immunize girls from the age of nine to 14. And this makes them completely free and protected from having cervical cancer. The vaccine caused about N11,000 and it is required that every child takes two doses, which is N22,000. We have started already and hope the government sees a reason to join in the project.” Speaking on the need for training incoming officials to take up responsibility in carrying out notable projects, the District Governor-elect, Rtn. Bola Oyebade, said the seminar would equip and prepare them in carrying out effective projects in line with the mission of Rotary, which is giving back to host communities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .