Okowa. Photo: TWITTER/IAOKOWA Governor Ifeanyi Okowa yesterday commended military and police personnel for their prompt intervention in the clash between suspected herdsmen and Uwheru communities in Ughelli North Local Council of Delta State. He, however, expressed sadness over the death of over eight persons, including security agents, in the clash. Restating the confidence of the state government in the security agencies, Okowa urged that the masterminds be arrested and prosecuted. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifeajika, the governor lauded the security personnel for restoring peace in the affected communities, adding that there was never a time he linked the crisis to the involvement of the military or any sister agency in the state. He said: “I am saddened by reports of persons, including security agents, feared to have lost their lives. I am hereby restating the confidence of the state government in the security agencies to rise to the security challenges in the state. “ I thank the army authorities for the sustained support to the state in providing security and protecting public facilities across the state.” Okowa called on the concerned communities “to maintain the peace that had been restored.” He added: I am assuring that the security agents would investigate the cause of the clash and bring the perpetrators to justice.” In the same vein, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has charged the military to fish out its personnel alleged to have backed the killers in the ugly incident. He also challenged the police high command to immediately bring the suspected herdsmen who carried out the unprovoked attacks to justice. On Thursday, the suspected nomads had attacked Avwon, Agadama, Ohoror and other communities of Uwheru Kingdom. Besides killing over eight persons, they had also inflicted injuries on several others and destroyed property and farms. Omo-Agege’s calls were contained in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media, Yomi Odunuga. His words: “I condemn the unprovoked attacks and killing of my constituents and the destruction of their property by suspected herdsmen. “The attacks on Avwon, Agadama, Ohoror and other communities of Uwheru Kingdom are one too many. “I call on security agencies to bring the perpetrators to book by ensuring that they face the full wrath of the law. “I assure the people of Uwheru Kingdom that this matter will not be swept under the carpet, and that the full weight of the law will brought on those found culpable.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .