A cross section of participants at the ongoing Social Media Week in Lagos… yesterday. PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN- For the media, especially the traditional ones, creative writing will remain a distinctive feature of survival in the 21st Century. These were the views of some panelists, Monday, at the Social Media Week (SMW), Lagos. Speaking at the session that talked about “User Experience Vs Content: How can media best deliver both?” Chief Executive Officer, Noah’s Ark, Bolaji Alausa, urged media houses should be more innovative and apply storytelling to their news content. Alausa said applying storytelling to content could be engaging and get people glued to our platform, adding that storytelling is key to Africa, and through it, efforts are made to connect our world. According to him, publishers should look beyond the tariff that they are trying to sell on their website and be more engaging as well building a community of tech leaders. “Tradition and hard work are still relevant; consider the insights that are true to our people. There are stories that have not been told, look inward, tell our story and reflect our people. Look at the environment to be able to generate insights that we as Africans care about,” he said. From her perspective, Product Marketing Manager, Google, Adetutu Laditan, publishers should look out for emerging technologies to tell stories across board. Laditan said there is a need for focus, content relevance, and easily accessible website and giving users relevant results. She said Google had launched tools to help publishers optimise their website connectivity for users’ optimal satisfaction. Strategic Media, Partnership sub-Sahara Africa, Facebook, Jocelyne Muhutu-Remy, said there is a need for engagement that will attract audience growth. Muhut-Remy said if a publisher continues to do the same thing the same way one would not make so much success. According to her, Facebook plays an advisory role to publishers and train media on how to use our tools for their work.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .