 Akinrinade  In fact, a peeved former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Alani Akinrinade (rtd) says the Federal Government “should go to hell if it cannot provide security” for Nigerians, which it swore to protect.Akinrinade, also a former Chief of Army Staff (CoS) in an exclusive chat with The Guardian expressed concern over the manner regional security systems are springing up He said: “There may be a lot of things that are not clear to me, whether the constitution precludes you from defending yourself, or looking after your own security, and that of your people. But I think it is only a stupid constitution, and the one that is inhuman that will prevent anyone from looking after his security, and welfare of the people around him.” He continued: “The Constitution did not create governors but administrators…A governor must be able to make laws through his parliament and also enforce those laws using the police force, but our governors can’t even, though they are called chief security officers of the states. Where is the instrument for fostering that security because the police is not under their control.”
 
He lamented situation where governors spend too much funds that is not even in their state’s budgets to equip a police force that they cannot directly control saying, “the police is not the responsibility of the governors because it is a federal police. We must have known that something is basically wrong with the security architecture.” While refusing to fault South West governors for initiating Operation Amotekun, or faulting them for waiting this long before taking off, he said, “when you are talking about timing, it is a bit difficult to fault the governors for setting up Operation Amotekun. All I know is that things got to a head and became unbearable, and so at some point the governors had to do something.”  “Are you telling me that a Federal Government will be looking on when some foreigners shamble into this country and start doing exactly what they want? If there is a cabal that is making this mistake that Nigeria is going to break up, it is not, but we only need to be on the watch.”He called for the revisiting of all the recommendations that had been made on security, adding that it was the only way that the country’s unity can be sustained. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .