ESSC dismisses report of Benin athletes representing other local councils
Even before the blast of the whistle for the beginning of the 2020 Edo State Sports Festival, the executive chairman of Egor Local Government Council, Eghe Ogbemudia has already picked her council to emerge overall winner of the games. All the local councils are participating in the Edo State Sports Festival, which is expected to test run the facilities meant for the National Sports Festival to be hosted by the state later this year. Speaking when she received the games unity torch from the Special Assistant  on sports to Governor Goodwin Obaseki, Sixtus Omokhagbor,  yesterday at the council’s secretariat in Uselu, Benin City, Ogbemudia she was happy to be part of the government’s development programme, noting that attracting the National Sports Festival to Edo was a plus to the state’s economy and youth development. “We in Egor are ready for the Edo Sports Festival and the national one coming up later. We are the council to beat in this festival. We have the men and resources to make it happen. You all know how much my late father, Samuel Ogbemudia, loved sports. So, I love sports as well and we will continue to encourage sports in our council.” The movement of the unity torch which started on Wednesday, January 15, 2020 finally came to an end at Oredo Local Council where the chairman, Evbareke Jenkins Osunde was on hand to receive the delegation. Like Ogbemudia, Osunde said Oredo Council was not only ready for the games, but also set to win it. “The State Sports Festival is to reawaken the enthusiasm and winning mentality of Edo people in sports which we are known for. As part of our programme, we are already adding to the sports infrastructure being built by the state government. “We are encouraging tennis, basketball, snooker and football. We have access to the facilities put on ground by the state government and we will appreciate them by encouraging our children to make good use of them to excel. We have sent the message to all the primary and secondary schools management to allow one hour for school children to engage in sporting activities,” he stressed.
Meanwhile, Chairman of the Edo Sports Commission (ESSC), Godwin Dudu-Orumen has dismissed reports that only Benin-based athletes are featuring at the ongoing third Edo State Sports Festival. There were reports yesterday that athletes from the other 17 local councils of the state were excluded from the festival. Reacting to the reports, Dudu-Orumen in a statement issued by Nnamdi Okosieme, his Special Adviser on media, said such plan existed only in the minds of the writers of the stories. “It is absolute falsehood. The third Edo State Sports Festival, as the name suggests, is an event involving all the local government areas in the state. It is not Oredo Sports Festival,” he said. The ESSC boss advised the public to disregard the reports as they were fabricated and calculated to mislead the public. “There are a few individuals intent on causing mischief. It appears it is not in their interest for this festival to take place. This is not the first time they will be spreading false reports about the festival. “Only a few days ago, the purveyors of this fake news reported that the festival had been postponed. When they were exposed on that one, they have come up with another ridiculous caper,” Dudu-Orumen stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .