Parents, students and stakeholders of Federal Government College (FGC), Buni/Yadi in Yobe State, have commemorated the sixth anniversary of 29 slain students. The college was attacked by Boko Haram insurgents and massacred the students in their hostels on February 24, 2014. The anniversary was marked with special prayers in mosques and churches, led by Imam Idi Adamu and Pastor Barnabas Ibrahim in Potiskum. Speaking on the attack and killing, FGC’s Principal, Umar Sulayman, said: “Today marks the sixth year of the incident insurgent attack that befell our 29 students. “They were brutally killed by Boko Haram insurgents. As a result, our members of staff also lost their property and their houses torched.” He said the “rebuilding and renovation projects” of the college has reached 80 per cent completion, assuring that this will enable surviving students return when security situation improves in the Damaturu/Biu axis. Sulayman, therefore, appealed to Governor Maimala Buni to intervene and overcome the challenges facing the college. He listed the challenges to include additional hostel, dining hall, a block of classroom, and a Coaster Toyota bus that will be conveying students for sporting and educational trips. Abdullahi Bazuwa, who represented the governor at the anniversary, pledged to convey the demands of parents and stakeholders of the college to the governor. Meanwhile, Lawan Gujja, who spoke on behalf of parents of the massacred students, said: “We’ll never forget that ugly day in our lives. “I am a parent and a community leader in Buni Yadi. My late son, Sulayman Mohammed Gujja, was involved in the attack and died instantly.” “The former Yobe State Governor Ibrahim Gaidam was kind to us as he gave us a million naira each. “The wife of the President, Aisha Muhammadu Buhari, invited us to the Presidential Villa and she spoke well to us and we appreciated her concerns about our feelings. On how parents were short-changed, he said: “I pleaded that she should give it (funds) through the minister. “Thereafter, the Personal Assistant to the Wife of the President called us informing that N55 million naira has been secured,
N30 million for Chibok girls while N25 million for us. “The parents are 29 in number, so if we are to share the N25 million, each parent is supposed to get N862,068 but we were invited and given N200,000 each. “This shows that only N5.8 million was released and disbursed to us while we don’t know the whereabouts of N19.2 million six years after the massacre of the students.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .