There was confusion at the office of the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 11, Osogbo, AIG Bashir Makama, yesterday, as a prominent traditional ruler, Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba AbdulRosheed Akanbi, allegedly attacked and rained punches on another monarch, Agbowu of Ogbaagbaa, Oba Dhirulahi Akinropo over a land dispute. AIG Makama had convened a peace meeting between Oluwo and other traditional rulers in Iwo zone over petitions raised by Oluwo that other monarchs were selling land within their domains. It was gathered that Oluwo had warned the monarchs against selling land and had claimed that the land in Iwo land belong to him. To forestall a breakdown of law and order in the zone, the AIG summoned a peace meeting of all the monarchs. The meeting, which held about 9:00 a.m, was attended by the Deputy Inspector General of the zone, Commissioner for Chieftaincy Matters in the state, representative of the Ministry of Lands, Chairman of Iwo Local Government and about eight monarchs. The Guardian gathered that after the AIG had finished addressing the monarchs on the need to give peace a chance, Oluwo descended on Oba Akinropo and started punching him till he sustained a facial injury. Oba Akinropo was reportedly rushed to the Trauma Centre of Osun State Hospital, Asubiaro, in Osogbo where he was hospitalised. When The Guardian visited the hospital, a cut was noticed on Oba Akinropo’s face, which was being treated by a doctor. Speaking with The Guardian, Oba Akinropo explained that he had honoured the invitation by the AIG for a peace meeting alongside the Oluwo and other Obas, only for the Oluwo to pounce on him in the course of the meeting. “I was attacked by Oba Akanbi right before the AIG and other Obas. You can see the wound on my face, Oba Akanbi inflicted it on me,” Oba Akinropo said. Corroborating Oba Akinropo’s claim, one of the monarchs who attended the peace meeting, Olu-Ile Ogbo, Oba Habeeb Agbaje Adetoyese, confirmed that Oba Akanbi attacked Oba Akinropo during the meeting. He added that the development brought the meeting to an abrupt end. Oba Adetoyese asked the Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola, to call Oba Akanbi to order adding that “if not for the AIG that forced Oba Akinropo out of Oluwo’s hands, it would have been deadly.” “We attended the peace meeting called by the AIG. We finished introducing ourselves at the meeting held inside the AIG’s office in Osogbo before the AIG appealed for peace. We were informed that since it is the land matter, it should be referred to the governor to handle and that the Police were only reacting to the petition raised by Oba Akanbi in November last year that some traditional rulers should be called to order over alleged sales of land. “Immediately the AIG finished speaking, Oluwo left where he sat and started tongue lashing Oba Akinropo and also called us names. Oba Akinropo was about defending himself before the AIG when Oluwo pounced on Oba Akinropo and started beating him. The AIG and other members of the meeting saved him from Oluwo’s hands. “We want the governor to suspend Oluwo before he destroys Iwo region. The Governor should take action now. Oluwo should be suspended so that we can have peace,” Oba Adetoyese narrated. Other monarchs who attended the meeting included Onigege of Igege, Oba Kazeem Adio Orioye, Oyediran II; Onifun of Ikonifun, Oba Dr Solomon Ojo; Olowu of Kuta represented by Prince Segun Adeigbe; Olupo of Olupona, Oba Oyebamiji Oyeleso; Oloja of Agbarire, Oba Jacob Alajide; Onisaara of Eesu, Oba Moshood Opalonke and Olwo-Oke of Iwo Oke, Oba Quadri Adeoye. Meanwhile, a lawyer, Mr Babajide Siyanbola, who was also at the meeting said legal actions would be taken against Oluwo for assault. Siyanbola said processes for the legal action would commence once Oba Akinropo is discharged from the hospital. But, when contacted on the telephone, Oluwo said, “there was no issue” during the meeting. Asked if he attacked Oba Akinropo or not, Oba Akanbi said: “There was no issue of attack. It was just a peace meeting and that was it. We took care of it and that is over. It was no issue. I don’t know why you are being sensational about it.” The Police Public Relations Officer of Zone 11, Mr Ade Ajisebutu, when contacted on the telephone, said he did not have the details of the peace meeting because he was not in Osogbo. “I am not in Osogbo. I don’t have the details,” he said. When contacted also, the PPRO of Osun Police Command, Mrs Folasade Odoro, referred The Guardian to Zone 11 PPRO, saying the matter was outside the command’s jurisdiction. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .