AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) has revealed plans to distribute over 250,000 free condoms to Nigerians. AHF advocacy and marketing manager, Steve Aborisade, who disclosed this in Abuja, noted that the move was in a bid to bridge Nigeria’s annual Condom Gap of about 600million. “Getting free condoms to people who need them most has always been a priority for AHF, but we’re stepping up our advocacy even more around the world in 2020 to help break down barriers to access, because condoms remain the most cost-effective option we have for preventing HIV, STIs and unplanned pregnancies,” Aborisade said. “The events held by our country teams bring community members together to learn how to best protect themselves and their partners and are also a blast for all attendees. We encourage everyone across the 43 countries where AHF operates to get out and find a ‘Safer is Fun’ ICD event near you, we need your support to show the world the demand for condoms is strong and condom access must improve.” He disclosed that AHF-Nigeria teams across the states are planning entertaining and educational “Safer is Fun” activities with the advocacy message. Adding that people cannot take charge of their health if widespread stock-outs, shortages and unaffordable prices for condoms continue, hence the need to help AHF spread the word by joining them for fun, advocacy and plenty of free AHF-branded LOVE and ICON Gold condoms! “AHF-Nigeria on February 13th through 14th, 2020, will show Nigerians how “Safer is Fun” and why we urgently need to take advocacy for condom access to a higher level this International Condom Day (ICD) by joining AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), the largest global AIDS organization with over 1.3 million lives in care across 43 countries, as we commemorate ICD with exciting events in our states of operation! He enjoined Nigerians to join AHF as it demands better access to affordable and attractively marketed condoms around the world in an effort to help prevent HIV and other sexually-transmitted infections, and promote healthy lifestyles. “There are 1.7 million new HIV infections annually and more than 1 million new cases of curable STIs every day, according to UNAIDS and the World Health Organization, respectively,” Aborisade said. “That is unacceptable when those conditions are one hundred per cent preventable, governments and global health organizations must do more to ensure people have easy access to free or affordable condoms.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .