Worried by incessant attacks by arms-bearing herdsmen on communities in Delta North Senatorial district of Delta State, traditional rulers in the area have advocated a uniform community security outfit to effectively police the district. Rising from a crucial meeting under the umbrella of Delta North Traditional Rulers Forum, held at Owa Oyibu, the monarchs condemned in strong terms the unwholesome activities of herdsmen in rural communities, warning that their people will no longer tolerate such unprovoked attacks in any land in Anioma nation. In a five point communiqué presented by the chairman of the forum, who is the Obi of Owa, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor 11, the traditional rulers asked the arms- bearing herdsmen to stay away from their land in their own interest. “Our people are no longer going to the farm for fear of either being attacked, maimed, killed, kidnapped or raped and we are saying that enough is enough,” the monarchs said. They warned that the peaceful disposition of Anioma people should not be misconstrued for either weakness or cowardice, insisting that any further attack on any part of Delta North would be met with unpleasant consequences. The monarchs therefore resolved to immediately reinvigorate the vigilante groups in various communities with a view to beefing up security within the district. They took a swipe at some unscrupulous elements in various communities who were allegedly conniving with the herdsmen to wreak havoc on the people. The monarchs also called for thorough screening and profiling of members of vigilante groups and Okada operators to ensure that bad eggs were not recruited into the community’s vigilante outfit. The monarchs commended Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for his swift response to flash points occasioned by threats posed herdsmen in different parts of the state, including Uwheru kingdom in Ughelli North, Abavo kingdom in Ika South, Issele Azagba in Aniocha North and others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .