The Lagos State Government yesterday said it had adopted a bottom-up approach to development in the realisation of its  Greater Lagos vision for the benefit of all Lagosians. The state’s Commissioner for Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salami, disclosed this at a stakeholders’ meeting on the junction improvement project in Alausa, Ikeja. According to the commissioner, the state as a people-oriented government, will continue to demonstrate belief in planning with the people rather than merely planning for them by engaging members of the public on issues bordering on development. He said that the import of the interactive exchange was to, among others, seek and obtain a mutual understanding of stakeholders for the smooth and successful take-off of the project He, therefore, urged residents’ co-operation for the planned improvement of the Ikotun roundabout project to ease vehicle movement in the axis. The commissioner, represented at the parley by Director, Urban Development, Oladimeji Animashun, said the project, which is expected to ease the perennial traffic congestion in Ikotun corridor, was part of the ongoing junction improvement initiative of government being implemented in furtherance of the traffic management pillar of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s THEMES agenda. “It is our fervent belief that through the junction improvement initiative, we would go a long way to make life easier and more meaningful for the teeming populace of Lagosians, who will witness more effective interconnectivity within the state and reap the attendant benefits of investments and job creation,” he said. He enjoined residents and community leaders to ensure unalloyed support to the project by co-operating with members of staff of the ministry and other agencies of government for the realisation of the project. In his address, Chairman, Igando-Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Mrs. Morenike Williams, applauded the government for the project but urged prompt compensation of residents whose property would be affected by the project. Williams also urged the police and other revenue collectors in the axis to desist from worsening the traffic situation in the areas during the period of the construction.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .