Tickets already sold out for day one, day two There's high expectation at the ongoing Berlin International Film Festival, as Eyimofe (This is my desire), first independent Nigerian film set to premiere tomorrow at the 70th Berlinale. Already, tickets for today's premiere (tomorrow) at the 800 seater Cinemaxx 3, and that of Tuesday holding at the Colosseum 1 are sold out. However, guests can still have the opportunity to see the film on February 28, at the Dephi Filmpalast starting from 18.30pm, and on March 1, at Cubix 9. Meanwhile, Eyimofe (This is My Desire), a Nigeria-America co-production, has landed a sales representation deal, in advance of its premiere today at the Berlin International Film Festival. According to reports, New York-based Aspect Ratio Sales has taken sales rights of the film. It however, excludes Africa and Asia where producer, GDN Studios retains. Presented by GDN Studios, directed by the Esiri brothers, Arie and Chuko, and produced by Melissa Adeyemo, Eyimofe addresses migrants’ endless pursuit for greener pastures in Europe and the reality they often meet at the end. It tells the story of two people’s quest for what they believe will be a better life in Europe. Starring Jude Akuwudike, Tomiwa Edun, Temi Ami-Williams, Cynthia Ebijie, and Jacob Alexander, Eyimofe tells the story of two people’s quest for what they believe will be a better life in Europe.⁣ In 2018, the film became a ‘Purple List Award’ winner and one of 10 projects chosen for the 2019 IFP Narrative Lab in New York. It would be recalled the the production team and cast members for Eyimofe are already in Berlin for the world premiere. The team, which left Lagos yesterday, will be joined by the rest of the team from the USA, top government officials from Nigeria and Lagos State, as well as the Nigerian community in Berlin to celebrate the film that has put the country on a global platform. The Berlin International Film Festival usually, called the Berlinale, is a film festival held annually in Berlin, Germany. Founded in West Berlin in 1951, the festival has been held every February since 1978 and is one of the ‘Big Three’ alongside the Venice Film Festival and Cannes Film Festival. 