The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Zamafara State and the Secretary, Party’s Board of Trustees, Alhaji Sani Abdulahi Shinkafi, has petitioned the Inspector General of Police, seeking  immediate arrest and prosecution of former Governor  Abdulaziz Yari for allegedly threatning the peace of the state. Shinkafi in the letter to the IGP, which was also copied to the Chief of Army Staff, Chief of Air Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, the Director General, State Security Services (SSS) and the National Security Adviser, stated that if Yari is not brought to book soon, he would set Zamfara State ablaze and rubbish every peace efforts of   government. According to him “following the unguarded and provocative statements made by  Alhaji Yari, wherein he was heard inciting members of his faction of APC to move against the state government. “I hereby demand his immediate arrest and prosecution for disobeying the subsisting order of the security agencies banning any form of public gatherings, political parties meetings and rallies across the state,” the petitioner said. Shinkafi further alleged that about 8500 private militia popularly called  Yansakai  were recruited illegally by the past administration in all the 17 Emirates through the former commissioner for Local and Chieftaincy affairs,  Bello Dankande Gamji. According to him, such step was taking without the Bill being passed by State House Assembly establishing the vigilante service group or assented to by the Governor as a law governing recruitment and operations of Yansakai. Shinkafi noted that the jungle justice style of the immediate past administration, whereby citizens were arrested, abducted, tortured and killed  with impunity is still fresh on the minds of the people. “Yari has been seen publicly inciting his factional APC members not to recognize the administration of Bello  Matawalle as the Executive Governor of Zamfara State but a sole administrator. “He has also rejected the May 24,  2019, judgment of the Supreme Court and resorted to calling the jurists all kinds of names. “There are weighty allegations that the former governor is planning with these unrepentant armed bandits to disrupt the peace accord in the state”, Shinkafi added. In his petition, he added that “the defunct volunteer vigilante groups, Yansakai, loyal to Yari has refused to embrace the disarmaments and arms control programme of the state government to augment the peace accord initiated by governor Matawalle. “There are intelligence reports that Yansakai recruited in Gummi had concluded plans to attack some Fulani settlements to ignite another security breach in the State and set the State on fire again. “It is on record that the Zamfara State Police Command has on September 24, 2019, following intelligence reports that Boko Haram was planning to attack and bomb some places in the state,  banned all forms of political rallies, meetings and processions in the state. “However, in flagrant disregard to the subsisting order banning all forms of political rallies, meetings and processions in the state, Yari was heard recently inciting his supporters to revolt against the state government with the sole aim of making the state ungovernable. Shinkafi also accused Yari of mobilizing his supporters to resist the Zamfara State Urban and Regional planning Board (ZUREPB), the Enforcement of Town planning law cap 130 as well as Zamfara State Edict No 2 of 1996 for building approval permission by the agency of government. The petitioner therefore insisted that former governor Abdulazeez Yari should be investigated and possibly prosecuted for crime against humanity for the past eight years. “I hereby request your esteemed self to as a matter of urgent national importance, order the security apparatus to investigate, arrest and possibly prosecute the immediate past Governor of Zamfara State without any delay for the sustenance of the peace initiative in the State,” Shinkafi stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .