 Abiola Ajimobi  Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said that the persistent claim by the immediate past administration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state that it built a modern Oyo was unjustifiable and bogus. Makinde, who stated this during a sensitisation programme on the new waste management system in the state at the weekend, said his administration inherited a decayed system in the governance of Oyo State in May 2019. The governor said that the administration of Senator Abiola Ajimobi, which claimed it built a modern Oyo, bought no functional fire-fighting truck to take care of fire outbreak in eight years, declaring that his government was determined to lift the state out of the mess left behind by the previous administration.He said that the past administration had no functional ambulances for state-owned hospitals and failed to leave a sustainable waste management structure. The governor further said that the waste management programme left behind by the immediate past administration was ineffective and unsustainable despite huge investments.But the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, while reacting, told Makinde to be humble enough and seek guidance from Ajimobi in “matter of effective public administration and purposeful governance rather than put the blame of his disappointing show of nine months on the doorstep of his immediate predecessor.” The Oyo APC, in a statement at the weekend in Ibadan by its Assistant Publicity Secretary, Ayobami Adejumo, said that “Makinde has succeeded in exposing himself as an emergency governor who is incapable of adding value to the governance of the state against the expectations of the majority of voters who chose him ahead of others on March 9, 2019. Meanwhile, Makinde has approved the resuscitation of zonal operational offices for the State Road Maintenance Agency (OYSROMA) to extend the operations of the agency to other parts of the state. Chairman OYSROMA, Kamil Akinlabi, disclosed this in Ibadan while inspecting the rehabilitation of the University of Ibadan-Bodija- Secretariat road being carried out by his agency yesterday. According to the chairman, the approval of the resuscitation of the zonal offices aside Ibadan zone was to facilitate a more holistic and effective road rehabilitation and maintenance in all parts of the state.“I wish to put it on record that Governor Seyi Makinde has graciously approved the resuscitation of zonal operational offices for the agency aside the Ibadan zone that operates from the headquarters at Eleyele. This is for effective road rehabilitation and maintenance in the nooks and crannies of the state,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .