Kobe Bryant was tragically killed in a helicopter crash on Sunday alongside his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna Maria. Photo: Getty Images NBA legend Kobe Bryant and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna have been laid to rest in a private family service two weeks after their deaths in a helicopter crash alongside seven others. A private funeral service was held for Kobe and Gianna on Friday, February 7 at Pacific View Memorial Park in Corona Del Mar, California with no photographers present, Daily Mail reports. The cemetery is about two miles from the Pacific Ocean and less than a 10-minute drive from the family’s church, Our Lady Queen of Angels, in Newport Beach. The Bryants are Catholic, and Kobe Bryant stopped by the parish’s chapel just hours before the fatal crash. The certificates listed the causes of death as blunt trauma and indicated that they died in a ‘rapid’ manner in the January 26 crash in the hills of Calabasas. A public memorial will be held for Kobe and Gianna on Monday, Feb. 24 at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, where the athlete played professional basketball with the Lakers for the entirety of his 20-year career. The “2-24” date would carry some symbolism — Bryant wore the No. 24 jersey in the later stages of his career and his 13-year-old daughter Gianna, who also died in the crash, wore No. 2 for her school basketball team.   #2, #24, #20 years as a Laker and the amount of years Kob and I were together A post shared by  Vanessa Bryant  (@vanessabryant) on Feb 7, 2020 at 9:49am PST  Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti had earlier confirmed to Los Angeles Times that a memorial was being planned in honour of the basketball icon, as well as the eight other victims of the crash. “There will absolutely be a memorial to mark the contributions of this incredible man and not only him, but to commemorate the loss of his daughter and all the other families that were there.” Vanessa Bryant, the wife of late NBA Legend recently revealed in an Instagram post that she is still grieving and that her brain is yet to accept the fact that her husband and daughter are gone: “I’ve been reluctant to put my feelings into words. My brain refuses to accept that both Kobe and Gigi are gone. I can’t process both at the same time. It’s like I’m trying to process Kobe being gone but my body refuses to accept my Gigi will never come back to me. It feels wrong.”