 Okowa. Photo: TWITTER/IAOKOWA  Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday in Asaba, urged political office holders to be guided at all times by good governance and leadership principles. The governor made the call while swearing in a former member of the House of Representatives, Evelyn Oboro as Special Adviser alongside chairman and members of the state’s Sports Commission, Chief Tonobok Okowa, Rev. Omatshola Williams, Chief Chinonye Daphey and Chief Ernest Juweto. Also sworn in yesterday was a member of the State Judicial Service Commission, Chief Lucky Ekayama Loyibo. While congratulating the appointees, Okowa reminded them that they were chosen on account of their strong work ethic, discipline, and commitment, adding that it was a good mix of motivators and technocrats, enthusiasm and experience, passion and temperance. He, therefore, charged: “Be diligent in your responsibilities, as t it is imperative that your decisions, actions, and utterances as political office holders are guided by the principles of good governance, leadership by example, prudent management, effective public communication, excellent service delivery, and collective responsibility. “You should discharge your responsibilities in accordance with Section 196 sub-sections 1 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and work for the good governance and development of the state. “To the newly sworn-in special adviser, it is imperative that you get yourself thoroughly acquainted with the policy direction of this administration by getting a copy of my inauguration speech and digest it properly.” The state chief executive added: “It goes without saying that you are required to render advisory services to the governor and work in close liaison with relevant ministries, departments, and agencies. I welcome sound and professional advice that will put the administration on the path of delivering the dividends of democracy and finishing strong. This administration is ever ready to listen to good advice and work with it as long as it will further our developmental aspirations and impact positively on the lives of our people.’’ While also commending the sports commission for the outstanding work it did in the first term of his administration, Okowa recalled that Delta retained its front-runner status in athletics, coming first in all National Youth Games and the National Sports Festival 2019 by a very wide margin, saying: “It is also gratifying to note that the state successfully hosted the 21st African Senior Athletics Championship, also known as Asaba 2018, at the reconstructed Stephen Keshi Stadium and it is expected that this board will strive to sustain this momentum and break new grounds.” Also yesterday, the state government reiterated its promise to collaborate with the National Agency for Prohibition of Traffic in Persons (NAPTIP) which is currently seeking an operational office and a special court in the state to try offenders. Chairman of the state Task Force on Human Trafficking and Illegal Migration, Mr. Peter Mrakpor, gave the assurance while receiving the new NAPTIP Zonal Commander, Benin Zonal Command, Mrs. Ijeoma Uduak in Asaba. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .