As another Lenten season starts on Wednesday, February 26, clerics have urged Christian faithful to use the occasion to renew their spiritual commitment, by striving eschewing all vices that can tarnish the relationship between them and God. The Bishop, Diocese of Abuja and the North of The African Church, Rt. Rev. Peter Ogunmuyiwa said Christians should take stock of their lives to see whether they have lived in conformity with the scriptures. He admonished them to repent and seek God’s mercy. Ogunmuyiwa, who is also the Coordinating Chaplain of the National Ecumenical Centre, CAN headquarters, Abuja, described Lent as a period the church must purge itself of sins and return to God. He said: “I think the situation we have found ourselves calls for sober reflection, especially the Church in Nigeria. Where there is no sin, there is no punishment. The problem confronting the church today started with sin. Therefore, we should use this period to seek the face of God concerning the church and our dear country. We should repent…” The Parish Priest of St. Leo’s Catholic Church, Ikeja, Lagos, Rt. Rev. Monsignor John Aniagwu, condemned incessant killings of Nigerians in the country. He described the situation as inhuman and called on those in authority to correct the injustice.  Lamenting the killings, he said: “ You ask yourself, where are these characters coming from? Are they really human beings? What kind of blood runs in their veins?” Aside praying for the country, Aniagwu described Lent as a period of soul-searching, repentance, examining one’s relationship with God and fellow human beings. The Chairman/General Leader, Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church, Ayo Ni O, Surulere, Lagos, Prophet Sunday Funsho Korode, said: “Lent is a period of supernatural blessings and it’s important for Christians to focus on the things that please God.” The Diocesan Bishop of Remo, Anglican Communion, Sagamu. Ogun State, Most Rev. Michael Olusina Fape, reminded Christians of spiritual stock-taking and fresh commitment to God, saying they should put flesh under subjection and avoid giving the body what it desires. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .