For the timely intervention of heavily armed policemen, the national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) would have been turned into a killing field after dozens of supporters and those against the continued stay in office of the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, yesterday clashed in Abuja. The free for all, which broke out at about 1:00p.m., witnessed the hurling of stones and other dangerous objects. However, a detachment of the rapid respond squad from the police force swiftly intervened apparently in response to a distress call by security personnel stationed at the party secretariat. The latest fracas makes third in recent time that protesters were storming the party headquarters to vent their spleen.A section of the anti-Oshiomhole marchers, who identified themselves as APC Members Coalition Movement, vowed not to back down on their demand. The spokesman, Malam Umar Mohammed Musa, stated: “We are here to express our feelings; to show or tell the whole world that we are not happy with what is happening in our party. The leadership of this party is getting out of hand, and that is why we are here to tell our leaders that Oshiomhole must go; Oshiomhole must leave. “When you look at the situation of our party and what happened at the last primaries in 2019, you will agree with me that we have no leader.”He went on: “Since Oshiomhole came on board, there is no progress in the party, there is no any development, no achievement or tangible thing to show you that there is exemplary leadership. “So, that is why we say Oshiomhole must go. “Even in the FCT, his leadership led to loss of lives. It was also so in Zamfara, Bayelsa, etc. Look at what happened recently in Bayelsa State. So, we are asking what is going on? We have noticed that Adams Oshiomhole is an agent who has come to destabilise our party. He is an agent that wants to see how this party would collapse and not win elections in 2023.” In a sharp reaction, the Deputy Youth Leader, APC FCT, Idris Umar Faruk, defended the former governor of Edo State.According to him, those protesting against the chairman were not members of the ruling party.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .