With mesmerising scenes, relatable narratives and gripping twists and turns, Beautiful Wilderness The Musical are set to hit the stage. The musical is an adaptation of the novel, A Beautiful Wilderness, written by Dupe Olorunjo. Produced and directed by Gbenga Yusuf, it is scheduled to run from February 14 to 16, 2020 at the Agip Recital Hall of the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. The show will go on stage for three consecutive days by 4:00 pm and 7:00 pm daily. Seasoned with free-flowing poetry, riveting dances and enchanting music, Beautiful Wilderness the musical is a must-see production. The plot revolves around the business tycoon, Keanu Omira (played by Patrick Diabuah). Omira is an easily recognizable boss-man by any working-class subject, as he believes he has the world in his pocket.  He is surprised when the rug is pulled from beneath his feet and he takes off on a journey into the unknown. In this 4D-nightmare-come-alive, he must make a choice: to either retrace his steps or be lost forever. The musical play parades other topnotch actors like Tosin Adeyemi, Omololu Sodiya, Aisha Onitiri, and Eden Attah. “What is real and what is not is left for the audience to decide,” the producers said. Produced by Seeing Through the Arts Production Company, this family show speaks of humility and kindness as part of the best human virtues to possess. It explores a different kind of love that gives freely but expects nothing in return. The Executive Producer of the musical play and author of the novel, A Beautiful Wilderness, Olorunjo, believes that stories have the power to expose the reality of where humans stand and help envision where they should be. She also states that all positive stories birthed in the heart deserve a telling. “I have written four novels, all within the inspirational fiction genre, and my hope every day is that each one will continue to influence my audience to embrace life-changing possibilities, sometimes, outside our normal reach,” Olorunjo says. Talking on how she was inspired to write the novel, Olorunjo revealed that it happened while she was trapped in Lagos traffic one morning.  Olorunjo adds, “I trust that our exposure to this story will help us appreciate all we are and all we have including our blessings and the love God has surrounded us with.” Yusuf, the creative director at Seeing Through the Arts Production Company, who recently produced and directed the acclaimed, Legends: the Musical, as well as Red Velvet,  Waje’s first album concert, is excited to be on the project, because of its amazing story of love and faith. As the producer and director, he says: “It is not a regular story and so our decision to stage ‘Beautiful Wilderness’ during the Valentine period was intentional, because, the musical play shows us a different kind of love. It is the highest form of love…one that has depth. I will say this to you, no matter what your schedule looks like, make time for yourself, or your loved one or ones, as the case may be, to come to see this show.” He chips in, “the play shows how crucial our decisions are and how they come to bear on our love life, relationships, businesses and also to us personally. We follow the story up the corporate ladder, through the alleys of poverty, over the bumps of the marriage institution and finally to a point of self-reflection on our own life journey. It’s a family show which connects with different age groups and social classes and one we are quite proud of.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .