 Librarian, Edo University Iyamho, Mr. Abdulrahman Garuba (left); Registrar, Dr. (Mrs.) Isoken Ogboro; Vice Chancellor, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor; Deputy Vice Chancellor, Prof. Stephen Omodia; and Bursar, Mr. Christopher Okhani during the 5th Matriculation ceremony of the University  held at Iyamho, Etsako West Local Council of Edo State … yesterday  Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Emmanuel Aluyor made the statement yesterday when 503 new students were inducted during the 5th Matriculation ceremony for the 2019/2020 academic session. The matriculation oath was administered on students admitted into the Faculties of Arts, Management and Social Sciences, College of Medical Sciences, Engineering, Law and Science. Prof. Aluyor enjoined the students to exhibit good behaviour at all times as smoking, possession of hard drugs, cultism and other acts of indiscipline would not be condoned. He also advised the new students to make the best use of the facilities provided to enhance their learning in the university. He said the university prices itself to be the model for the 2nd Century University in Nigeria with its world-class technologically enhanced teaching and learning facilities. According to him, “One of such technologically enhanced teaching and learning tools in the university is the CANVAS: Learning Management System (LMS) and our robust Academic Information System (AIS). “In addition to the advanced technologically enhanced teaching, the university has adopted the Competence-Based curriculum in medicine, student centre learning model in teaching all our courses in the university and recently, the Outcome-Based Education (OBE) learning system for the Faculty of Engineering. “Some other of our enhanced teaching and learning tools include: power laboratories for Physiology students, fully equipped Engineering workshop for teaching multi-scale manufacturing, skills laboratories with high and low fidelity manikins for Nursing and Medical Students, a world-class Mass Communication studio, legal clinic for Law students, Smart Boards, temperature-controlled classrooms with multimedia projectors etc.” Wishing the new intakes a memorable sojourn throughout the period of their studies, the university boss thanked parents for honouring the invitation extended to them, adding that the university has also put in place a CANVAS Learning Management System to enable them partner with management of the institute in the training of their children to be leaders of tomorrow. He explained that the aim of creating such system is to enable the parents/guardians anywhere they are, monitor the activities and performance of their child/ward in terms of classroom attendance, text assignment and examination results. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .