Kano state government has expressed readiness to key into the National Housing Scheme to provide an affordable home to civil servants in the state. Commissioner for housing and transport, Abdullahi Musa Lawan spoke about the scheme at the weekend when he received the management of Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) in Kano. Lawan, who reeled out the Kano state government policy on decongestion of the old city, disclosed the government’s plan to build 7,000 affordable housing units to address the deficit. While intimating the management of FMBN on the challenges hindering the state from enrolling into the National Housing Scheme, the commissioner said efforts are being made to resolve differences between the government, Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and other stakeholders. According to Lawan, “Kano state government under the able leadership of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje is taking the provision of housing as major priority. Government has concluded plan to launch new 7,000 affordable housing units for the civil servants and other members of the public. This we believed will reduce housing deficit in the state. “Besides, government has taken the decision to complete all abandoned housing units by previous administration. For instance, the Kwankwasiyya estate is about 90 percent stage of completion just like Amana and Bandaraw cities  All these houses were built and left uncompleted. Government find it difficult to dispose because of the high cost. “We are looking into the assistant of Federal mortgage bank to help us dispose the houses as well build more houses in the state. We have allayed the fears of the labour and resolve all the challenges. The state is now ready to key into the National housing scheme”. Barrister Lawan noted. FMBN managing director Ahmad Musa Dangiwa said civil servants in Kano are states where workers are missing out of the mortgage scheme. Dangiwa disclosed that despite the late adoption of the national scheme in Kano, FMBN is investing over N3 billion on 440 housing units in the state as part of Federal government policy to provide affordable homes to all. He pledged to collaborate with the Kano government to reduce the existing housing deficit and provide housing loan to cooperative societies and individuals to own their homes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .