• 2020 mock UTME holds today in 64 centres nationwide The Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, has warned tertiary institutions against admitting candidates outside the Central Admission Process System (CAPS) of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). In his address at the commissioning of board’s new General Services Department building yesterday in Abuja, Adamu stated that any admissions done outside CAPS would be considered as corrupting the entire process. His words: “I congratulate JAMB on the introduction of CAPS, which has revolutionised admission process in the interest of candidates irrespective of where they come from, gender or social status. “CAPS ensures due process, fairness, discipline and equity in the process. It is through the automated system that ordinary Nigerians are now hopeful of not being denied the rightful place in the admission exercise. “It is instructive that CAPS protects the traditional rights of the senates and academic boards of the institutions. “This is because CAPS does not allow anyone other than the admission officer, vice-chancellor, provost or rector to initiate, propose or recommend any candidate for admission but also requires the documentation. “Permit me to state that the leadership of any higher institution found to be involved in admitting any candidate without prior approval of the board or outside the established CAPS would be considered and treated as corrupting the admission process.” The minister urged the candidates sitting for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) to shun all forms of malpractice, adding that the current administration was out to re-orientate the people. He enthused that the goal was achievable once the mindset of youths, whom he noted, were majority clients of JAMB, is re-channelled to cherished values and virtues. Also speaking, the board’s chief executive, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, stated that the organisation was conducting its 2020 mock UTME today in 64 accredited centres nationwide. According to him, 350,000 applicants are participating in the exercise following the conclusion yesterday of this year’s UTME /Direct Entry (DE) registration. He said: “For the mock, we are using about 64 centres across the country. But we are also automating our mock examinations this year.” “This is whereby, even centres that may not have candidates physically, will be automated and used remotely for the exercise. “ Oloyede noted that over two million UTME/DE candidates had so far registered for this year’s test. On the new building, the JAMB Registrar said it was for workers in the General Services department, adding that it cost the examinations body N89.5 million to erect the structure besides the N141, 276, 900 expended on three brand new power-generating sets – one 1,000 KVA and two 500KVA facilities – to illuminate the edifice. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .