Disowns recruitment exercise
Director General of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, has stressed the need for the country to attain drug self-sufficiency. According to her, this would reduce fake and adulterated drugs as well as ensure drug security. Amid the Coronavirus and Lassa fever outbreaks, the NAFDAC boss in Lagos yesterday, disclosed that the country still imports about 70 per cent of its drugs, making the nation vulnerable to emergencies. Adeyeye also described the purported online recruitment exercise by the agency as fake news. She said: “Are we employing right now? The answer is no. We are not employing anybody right now and we are not recruiting and it is also on our website that we are not recruiting; whoever is doing that is playing pranks, possibly exploiting people.” The pharmacist noted that some unscrupulous elements extorting unsuspecting Nigerians, adding that NAFDAC does not demand money for employment. Adeyeye continued: “We hope to recruit this year but we have to get approval from the Head of Service, federal character and the budget office before we can even think of recruiting.” The NAFDAC boss added that the Coronavirus crisis would send a clear message about drug security. She went on:  “At the height of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) (epidemic), more than 33 million Africans died because there were no drugs. We do not want that to happen. Right now, we ship about 70 per cent of drugs from China and India. “It should not get bigger than this. We have to think of sustainability, what could happen to us as a country because we import about 70 per cent and make about 30 per cent. It is time for us to think and apply the necessary measures to achieve drug security.” Adeyeye disclosed that there would be a meeting of the international coalition of regulatory agencies in Geneva where they would talk about the Coronavirus, epidemiology and possible vaccines that are being developed to tackle the menace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .