Scientists under the aegis of the Association of the Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria have concluded plans to roll out policies to curb quackery in the profession and also to assure quality. According to them, policy on quality management systems would be the minimum requirement for any laboratory to practice in Nigeria both public and private. Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Tosan Erhabor, said the state of laboratories was not where it is meant to be but as regulators, they are working to so see a way forward. Erhabor at the 14th Association of Medical Laboratory Scientist of Nigeria Annual Public Health Lecture Series and National Induction/Investiture of West African Postgraduates College of Medical Laboratory Science noted that as scientists they need to solve problems and help contribute to improving the health sector in Nigeria. He said: “If you look back before now, the issue of diagnosis of Lassa fever in Nigeria was not there, we have to go outside the country but we can now boast of laboratories in Nigeria which can diagnosis those diseases.” The Registrar disclosed that they are inspecting laboratories all over the country. “As I speak to you, we have visited 14 states and quarks are being tried in the High Court in Nigeria. You the Nigeria Judiciary issues, we won some cases. We are telling Nigerians that we are committed to zero tolerance to quackery. We are going to try any erring person to see that Nigeria does not have quacks.” Erhabor added that medical laboratory scientists are the core people in achieving Universal Health Coverage.  He said aside poor funding of the sector, the players and policymakers also, deviate from the policy in Nigeria, charged the government to do the right thing in terms of policy and implementation and make sure the people that are there to give you that diagnosis.  Also, National President, Association of Medical Laboratory Science Council of Nigeria (AMLSCN), Dr. Bassey Enya Bassey, said the public health series was initiated to address the myriad of public health challenges facing the country with a view to promoting health and contributions of the medical laboratory in responding to diseases outbreak. He added that the themes of the lecture, ‘Enterprise Opportunities: National Health and Economy’ and ‘Building Young Entrepreneurs: Challenges and Opportunities’ and ‘Health Enterprise and Development Economy,’ was to focus on entrepreneurs to create and sustain economic value, recognizing and relentlessly pursuing new opportunities to serve the people and engaging in a process of continuous innovation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .