The Middle Belt Forum (BBF) has raised the alarm over alleged plot by some disgruntled elements to cause a breakdown of law and order in Taraba State. This followed concerns in some quarters over the absence of Governor Darius Ishaku, which has been linked to a possible resurgence of violence in the state. National President of the Forum, Dr. Pogu Bitrus, who stated this in a statement in Abuja yesterday, said it should serve as a wake-up call for security personnel to live up to their bidding. “In spite of several attempts by certain forces to destabilise some states of the Middle Belt Region, including Taraba, Governor Ishaku has remained committed to ensuring continued service, safety, and development of Taraba State. “There are many states in Nigeria that have come under attacks even when their governors were on their seats. Governor Ishaku’s brief absence has neither led to the abandonment of any key projects nor impacted negatively on governance. “The civil service and other arms of government have also not suffered in any way on account of Ishaku’s perceived absence.” According to him, those lamentations over the governor’s absence are obviously inspired by negative partisanship aimed at creating discord and mischief in the state. He said as an umbrella organisation representing ethnic nationalities in the Middle Belt Region, he stated that the governor has been committed to the safety of lives and property. “We understand that those opposed to the Ishaku-led government would not rest on their oars to spread falsehood in a bid to cause discontent and discredit the tranquility and development in the state. “To discredit Governor Ishaku who has done everything to safeguard lives and property amounts to sheer wickedness,” he added. He, therefore, said the current attempt to discredit Ishaku by alleging that his absence could fuel insecurity in the state was not only malicious and unacceptable but also a demonstration of the weak state of his traducers. “As a forum, we commend the devoutness of Governor Ishaku in working for the good of the state. Vital projects critical for the development of the state are ongoing. The brief absence of Ishaku from Jalingo has not stalled the development of projects or caused a delay in the payment of salaries or execution of projects. According to him, the governor holds regular meetings in Abuja with various groups, adding that among some of his consistent guests are prospective investors who are being assured of the safety of their investments. “What Taraba people should be doing now is to support the governor and shun baseless rumours aimed at engendering negative perception and unnecessary concerns over the governor’s perceived absence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .