Glory Osei | Image: Naijamobile Glory Osei has returned to Twitter barely 24 hours after deactivating her account on the microblogging platform in response to a series of backlash. This time, she came with an apology. Osei who has been the subject of Twitter jokes and memes since October 2019 after she was called out on social media by former employees for a series of allegations succumbed to social media bullies by deactivating her account earlier today. As she makes her return to the platform, she apologize for her past misdeeds and appeals to Twitter users to stop the attacks. Osei admitted that she had made mistakes and tried to survive in an “harsh environment” made harder by people she had sought to help. However, she pleaded with Twitter users to stop the attacks: “I am not here to explain. Just to tell you to stop. Please. Stop. You are not just hurting me you are hurting the over 200 people that are working their asses off in our companies. You are destroying an industry, not just one woman, hundreds of people would be affected, hundreds. “I have made many mistakes, but the truth is I have not made any of the decisions for which you have come to despise me so. But I would take the blame for being present when they were made. If I hurt you, I AM SORRY. My lesson is learnt. Please spare us. Let us be better. “A lot of unfair things have been said, a lot of past mistakes have come up. I would some day go into details but today I say let it stop. Please. I am tired. I need to focus on building. I need to heal. My people need to heal. We have been working under water. Let us breathe. Osei maintained that she doesn’t owe any salary as a number of Twitter users have alleged. “I dont owe anyone a salary. I pay my salaries ON TIME. It is so so sad that I have to emphasise this but this is how low you have all brought me. You wanted my humility, you have it. I do this not just for me, but for the hundreds of market women who now depend on my company .. “Again, I apologise. I humble myself before the vitriol of Nigerian twitter. I think it was misplaced, but you know what, I am tired of saying “the earth is round” at the wrong time. I have erred. You have exaggerated. Still, believe me when I say I am sorry. I am so very sorry.” In October 2019, Glory Osei and her husband Muyiwa Folorunso were accused on social media by former employees for alleged high-handedness, allegations of scam business ventures and poor treatment of former staff as well as maintenance of a toxic work environment. 