Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has again said that the state does not need any separate security outfit apart from those constitutionally recognised. Obviously satisfied with the performances of security operatives in the state, Ganduje had dissociated self from the recently-flouted “Shege Ka Fasa,” a similitude of Amotekun in the South-West. Although Ganduje was disposed to enforcing community policing to enhance security architecture, he maintained that all state-owned security formation would remain working synergy with the Police Force. The governor spoke when he received the newly-posted Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone One, AIG Sadiq Abubakar Bello, who was at Government House on a courtesy call. Ganduje expressed confidence in the way security agencies conduct their professional role in securing the society and protecting lives and property in the state, adding that the synergy gives more encouragement and harmonious working relationship with each other. “We do not intend to come forth with any security outfit. People who are not trained and who do not even understand how security works. You just cannot give what you like to people in the name of security outfit. “They all work together with a common purpose in all fronts. They all involve in the security management of the state. We are always using our control centre to look at and fish out black spots. The state has multi-purpose tracker vehicle and planted Close Circuit Television (CCTV) in so many strategic locations in the state. “How can you bring forth something and at the end of the day, the same thing becomes security threat to the people and the society? So, we don’t want what will become another security challenge. “The Hisbah we have in place are working in synergy with police. They are being guided by the police and other security agents as the case may be. We don’t see them as separate security entity. They, like any other individual, help security agents to work very well,” governor said. He said that all the states under Zone One Police Headquarters would continue to work together for the peace and security of the zone, and the country in general. In his remarks, Bello commended Ganduje for providing the atmosphere and conducive environment for the security agencies to work effectively and efficiently in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .