Man in police net for allegedly defiling four-year-old daughter An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences court yesterday remanded a caregiver working with persons with Down syndrome, Kabiru Wasiu, in the custody of Nigeria Correctional Services (NCS) facility. Kabiru, 30, of no fixed address, was remanded by the court for allegedly defiling a teenager with Down Syndrome (names withheld).He was also alleged to have raped a woman, another Down Syndrome sufferer. The defendant is facing a three-count charge of sexual assault by penetration, defilement of a child and rape before Justice Sybil Nwaka. The state prosecutor, Ms. Inumidun Solarin, said the defendant committed the offences sometime in 2018 at the Down Syndrome Foundation Nigeria’s hotel, located at No. 43, Adegoke Street, Masha, Surulere, Lagos. She told the court that Kabiru is the caregiver and a teacher to persons with Down Syndrome at the facility. Solarin added that the defendant had unlawful sexual intercourse with a 17-year-old resident who has Down Syndrome. “He also sexually assaulted her by inserting his penis into her anus,” she said. The prosecutor also said Kabiru had on different occasions, had unlawful sexual intercourse with a 31-year-old woman with Down syndrome without her consent. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charges.In view of his “not guilty plea”, Justice Nwaka ordered that the defendant be remanded at the Correctional Centre. She adjourned the case till May 14 for trial. Meanwhile, the police in Ebonyi State have arrested a 29-year-old man for allegedly defiling his four-year-old daughter in their home. The state police spokesperson, DSP Loveth Odah, confirmed this incident to newsmen yesterday. The suspect hails from Ngbo-Agbaja, Izzi local government area of Ebonyi. According to Odah, the child is currently suffering Vesco Virginia Fistula (VVF) following injuries she sustained from the defilement. It was gathered that a quarrel arose between the man and his wife when they noticed that their daughter was urinating uncontrollably, before the girl’s mother reported the matter to the police.The suspect was arrested on February 11 but the man was reported to have denied ever having canal knowledge of the girl during police investigation. However, the suspect’s wife, Uzoamaka and the girl told the police that it was the man who committed the act. The little girl is currently undergoing medical examination at the National Obstetric Fistula Centre (NOFIC) in Abakaliki.Odah stated that the police juvenile welfare centre from Ekumenyi Police Division where the incident took place initiated preliminary investigation into the matter and recovered the girl’s stained pant before the matter was transferred to the State CID for further investigation.“The suspect has been arrested and investigation is ongoing. He will be arraigned in the court after investigation,” Odah added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .