February 14 has its own peculiar challenges for different individuals. From trying to decide what would be the most thoughtful and romantic gift for your spouse to getting incredibly chafed with your enduring singleness as everyone sings in your ears, Valentine is coming, where is your boyfriend? You are sitting at home, lonellyyyy. We got some people in Guardian’s digital department to share their great and not-so-great Valentine experiences in front of a camera. Here’s an excerpt from the conversation. Christine: I was dating this guy and he sent me flowers. He didn’t send them in a bouquet, he sent sticks of roses to my work from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm. When I was closing from work someone was standing with chocolate and wine. Philip: I stole my sister’s flowers that another guy brought for her and I went to give my girlfriend in school. It felt very adventurous and it remains my fond valentine memory. Michael: Valentine has never been really romantic. I don’t need a special day to celebrate who I am in love with. Most times when I am in a relationship, she comes, we hang out, then we Netflix and chill. Rukevwe: This guy invited me over and we went to this very big supermarket. He was asking me out at that time, then he got down on his knees… and he sang to me in front of people everybody was there looking at us. I was so touched but … I didn’t date him. For me, that was really amazing and to date, I still cherish that memory. Christine: To each his own but I believe it is a very special day. I want to wake up with petals on the floor. We’ll talk about who will clean it later. I want to wake up with money on Valentine’s Day, it must not be on the 13th or 15th. Michael: I think it is overrated. It makes people that are not in a relationship feel unloved. There is this feeling that everybody is in love, everybody is having a relationship. Why am I left out? Also, there is this rush to impress your lover that makes it look like Black Friday. Watch the full video on Guardian Nigeria’s YouTube channel 