Kick-start Valentine’s celebration with a gift of potted red Anthurium with heart-shaped leaves and blooms. Some people love roses and candy for Valentine’s Day, but personally I would love a gift that keeps on giving. If you gave roses last year, and the year before, it might be time to try something new.
Here are a few ideas to shake things up this V-Day and gift a long-lasting “I love you” plants. Love isn’t fleeting so give everlasting gifts this Valentine’s Day, let your loved ones know your love grows everyday.
Spread the Love this Valentine’s Day with these Heart-Shaped Houseplants.
Unlike a bouquet of flowers, these adorable indoor plants will keep on growing, just like your affection. You can’t go wrong with a bouquet of flowers for Valentine’s Day, but it’s always a little sad to see them shrivel and die so soon (usually in less than two weeks). Instead of a one-and-done vase of fresh blooms, you can express your love in a more everlasting way with houseplants that have heart-shaped leaves. With a little care, these houseplants will stick around far longer than a dozen cut roses and can continue to remind the recipient of your affection year-round as they grow. We’ve picked out some indoor plants that may not be as traditional as a bunch of cut flowers for Valentine’s Day, but their heart-shape leaves (and flowers for some of them) make them every bit as romantic. Anthurium
Appropriately named Allura, this hot anthurium bears Valentine’s Day-shaped red flowers and leaves. Mother Nature is such a romantic, isn’t she? The flowers feature standing-at-attention yellow centers (spadix), like little exclamation points and last for weeks! Also called flamingo flower, this little number adds colorful allure anywhere you place it. Potted in a decorative pot, this anthurium brightens any spot in the house and can be moved to a shaded spot outdoors in hot tropics. Love continues year-round with its display of beautiful blooms.
There’s so much to love about anthurium, which not only has heart-shape leaves but its heart-shape blooms even come in bright red. You can also find varieties with pink, white, and even purple flowers. Bright, indirect light will produce the best blooms, but even without flowers, the leaves will still look beautiful all by themselves. Otherwise, all they need is a little water whenever the soil feels dry and they’ll eventually grow about two feet tall. Flowering Cyclamen
Potted cyclamen is one of our favorite alternatives to flowers for Valentine’s Day because it’s just as colorful as a bouquet of roses. You can find varieties that bloom in shades of deep rose-red to blushing pink, as well as pure white. To sweeten the deal even more, its pretty green-and-silver leaves are heart-shape. Cyclamen likes plenty of bright, indirect light and a little water whenever the top inch of soil gets dry. Most will stay on the small side, but cyclamen can eventually grow to just over a foot tall. Ceropegia woodii “String of Hearts”, “Pearl Rosary”
When one heart isn’t quite enough to express your feelings, give dozens! String of hearts has trailing stems dotted with small, heart-shape leaves that are usually green and silver, but can sometimes have a touch of pink. This dainty-looking vine loves plenty of sunlight, so place your plant in a sunny window, where it can grow up to three feet long. It’s not a succulent, but string of hearts is almost as drought tolerant as these plants so you should let the soil dry out completely between waterings. Potted Rex Begonia, painted-leaf Begonias. Love interesting foliage especially begonia leaves. Rex Begonia, painted-leaf Begonias 
These types of begonias offer an array of leaf shapes, colors, and patterns from one variety to the next, and plenty of them have pink hues. They need bright, indirect sunlight so their leaves stay as colorful as possible.
Size: Up to 2 feet tall
Light: Medium to bright light
Watering: Water when the soil is just beginning to dry out. Stromanthe “Tricolor”
This plant is like an optical illusion: Stromanthe looks different from pretty much every angle. The top of the green leaves feature white variegation, but if you look at it from below, you’ll see a surprise underneath—the underside of the leaves is variegated pink and red. Stromanthe is native to rain forests, so be sure to put them in a place that is warm and humid.
Size: 2 to 3 feet tall
Light: Bright, indirect light
Watering: Let the top inch of soil dry out before watering. Calathea
Because of its delicate and showy leaf patterns, Calathea is also known as zebra plant, peacock plant, and rattlesnake plant. Calatheas are a little fussy about their growing conditions, but the beautiful plant is well worth the effort. Caladiums are a great plant to turn to when you want guaranteed color. Many cultivars have patterns with pink centers or veining. Each of its stems has one large heart-shape leaf at the end.
Size: Up to 3 feet tall and 2 feet across
Light: Part-shade or filtered sun
Watering: Keep the soil moist, and don’t let it dry out completely. Caladium
Caladiums are a great plant to turn to when you want guaranteed color. Many cultivars have patterns with pink centers or veining. Each of its stems has one large heart-shape leaf at the end.
Size: Up to 3 feet tall and 2 feet across
Light: Part-shade or filtered sun
Watering: Keep the soil moist, and don’t let it dry out completely. Fittonia spp. “Mosaic Plant” 
Also called nerve plant, mosaic plant (Fittonia albivenis) is a trailing plant with deeply veined leaves. Those veins can be white or deep pink, which makes each leaf look like a mosaic or stained-glass window. This plant will thrive in indoor containers, and because it stays small, it’s especially good for terrariums.
Size: Usually under 6 inches
Light: Indirect light (avoid direct light, which can make the leaves crisp up).
Watering: Mosaic plant grows best in moist soil, so water it when the surface of the soil is just barely dry. Heart Wreath
You can make a Valentine heart-shaped wreath with living succulents cuttings, air plants (Tillandsia spp.), and dried floral accents. Hang it on the door or use it as part of a rustic table centerpiece. HOYA KERRI “Sweetheart Hoya” 
The ultimate! Also called Valentine plant, Sweetheart hoya, Lucky-Heart Hoya Heart, Hoya kerrii, is a popular gift around Valentine’s Day because of its shape. You’re most likely to see single heart-shape leaves for sale in cute little pots, but sweetheart hoya will eventually grow into a vine, covered in little green hearts that will look especially eye-catching when draped over a hanging basket. This succulent plant doesn’t need much water and will grow in low light, but it does best when grown in bright, indirect light. Hoya heart is perfect for all of your plant-loving Valentines. Even beginner plant parents will be successful with this easy to grow plant. Potted, adorned with a “Love Balloon” will be a perfect gift for home or office. Plants fill your home and office/work space with life. Let your loved ones know your love grows every day!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .