Ayodele Fayose Prove your case, ex-governor dares party Ekiti State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has asked the immediate past governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, to explain how he spent N400 million meant for the reconstruction of the Ekiti portion of Ado-Akure road. Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Ade Ajayi, asked the former governor to first explain why the contractor handling the road project was sacked. The ruling party expressed surprise that the former governor could be describing the road as deplorable when he allegedly misappropriated the N400 million set aside for its reconstruction.Fayose had raised the alarm over the deplorable state of the road, urging the Federal Government to urgently fix it. The APC further accused Fayose of either abandoning or inflating the cost of the few roads he reportedly constructed in the state during his tenure.It said that all the roads across the state were riddled by potholes, which the Kayode Fayemi-led administration had been fixing. Meanwhile, reacting to the allegation, Fayose challenged the ruling party to show evidence of the alleged sleaze or keep quiet.The former governor’s media aide, Mr. Lere Olayinka, said: “The issue we are talking about is the deplorable condition of Ado-Akure Road. Even Fayemi himself can no longer ply the road with the level of security and the sport utility vehicles (SUVs) that he uses. “On the allegation that somebody mismanaged funds, if they have any evidence that Fayose committed any financial infraction as governor, they should inform the ‘EFCC chapter’ of their party. “They are coming up with lies that somebody earmarked N400 million. If Fayemi earmarked N400 million, why didn’t he use the money to fix the road? He spent four years from 2010 to 2014. So, for four years, all he could do was to earmark money.” The media aide noted that Fayose rehabilitated the dualised portion of Ado-Ikere road when he was governor.“Fayose extended the dualisation to Ikere Roundabout. If PDP was not robbed in the 2018 election, the arrangement was for that road to have been dualised to Amoye Grammar School, Ikere-Ekiti. “By now, what have they done? Fayemi is running to two years in office now, what have they done? The roads are there. APC is in government in Ondo and Ekiti states; they cannot put resources together and make the road usable,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .