 Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila (left); Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun and Executive Director, Gtbank, Mr. Hassan Musa at the final of the GTB Lagos International Polo Tournament… at the weekend.  Speaking at the end of the tournament on Sunday, Olashoju pointed out that the campaign for Majekodunmi Cup, Open Cup, Low Cup and Silver Cup prizes, were most competitive and the most exciting in years. He thumbed up all the corporate sponsors for promoting polo in Lagos, noting that the relationship between Lagos polo and sponsors over the years has had a positive impact in the development of the game of kings. Also speaking on the event, Tournament Manager, Seyi Oyinlola promised that next year would get better as it has always been over the years, adding, “it was a two weeks of thrilling polo experience for the lovers of the game.” Oyinlola declared that having gained reputation as one of the biggest polo tournaments in Africa, the Lagos Polo Club looked forward to delivering great values for the sponsors, partners and lovers of the king of games of with the glamorous fiesta. Reacting to their feats in the tournament, Bowale Jolaoso, whose Leighton Kings won the Oba of Lagos Cup, Open Cup, and Italian Ambassador’s Cup, as well as the prestigious Majekodunmi Cup, described “the Majek final as a nerve wrecking final,” adding, “ from start to finish, our Lintex/Agad opponents pushed us all the way, but we wanted the cup most and our determination paid off with a deserving victory. “I want to thank all our numerous supporters who stood by us all the way, my teammates and polo buffs across the country for joining us in celebrating this double victory on our very first attempt, a feat that we treasured so much, he added with a smile.”More than 1,000 horses and 39 teams featured in the 2020 GTB Lagos International Polo Tournament played over two weeks at the iconic Lagos Polo Club, Ribadu Road, Ikoyi.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .