Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), an interventionist agency mainly saddled with funding academic research in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions, the other day passed a blanket vote of no confidence in lecturers in public higher institutions over alleged misappropriation of grants. Although the development is regrettable, it suggests that Nigerian academia has excess research grants than the evidence will support. Tertiary institutions globally have the core mandate of research and advanced learning to solve diverse problems and better a lot of human society. Research, especially, is an expensive venture and the thin divide between knowledge-driven advanced economies and others occupying the infamous underdeveloped or third-world category. 
 
Apparently to remove Nigeria from the third-world group, TETFund was rejigged in 2011, from the rubble of the old Education Trust Fund (ETF) established in 2003 as it was originally known. The body has the mandate of collecting two per cent education tax on the profits of Nigerian registered companies, to fund intervention programmes in the Federal Government-owned tertiary institutions. A key component of the function is the disbursement of grants and monitoring of research and development programmes in the ivory towers.  TETFund is right: misappropriated public fund and diversion of grants aimed at solution-oriented investigation are criminal and condemnable. However, such social malaise should not be unexpected in institutions of higher learning as a sub-set of the Nigerian society. Therefore, some mothers do have them! As a matter of fact, the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) the other day also levelled allegations of personnel budget inflation against some academic and healthcare institutions among 300 MDAs that cumulatively padded payrolls in excess of N18.6 billion. This is alarming and a shame to the leadership of all institutions fingered.  Besides, the body should also tidy up its acts and processes to be ahead of the game. Grants are not given in lump-sum, rather in tranches. It is the duty of TETFund to monitor every stage of the research and match pennies with the progress made. A so-called researcher that has another wife or car as the only evidence of research cannot be deserving of the next stage of disbursement. If he or she does, then it is more of the fault of TETFund’s institutional weakness than of the ivory towers.
 
The tertiary institutions and MDAs alike must begin to lead by example in transparency and accountability in the handling of public funds. Already fingered by ICPC in budget padding scandal are University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Federal Medical Centre, Bayelsa, Nnamdi Azikiwe University, University of Jos, University of Ibadan and its College Hospital (UCH). The truth is that many of our institutions lack financial discipline and standard internal auditing system. All those culpable should be dealt with severely to serve as a deterrent for others. The institutions cannot continue to be the cesspit of corruption or showing appearances of impropriety and expect the public spaces to be any better. In the main, charity should begin from the ivory towers – as standard reference points to the MDAs.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .