Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed has assured that his administration will not toy with banditry and kidnapping, stressing that synergy with the security agencies, stakeholders and traditional leaders is to ensure a safe and secure state. He stated this yesterday while handing over firearms and ammunition to the Police and the guns recovered from criminals by a hunter, Ali Kwara at Government House, Bauchi. The governor said Ali Kwara recovered the arms at Burra forest in Ningi Council Area in collaboration with the police who confiscated them from bandits. Mohammed said, “There are some informants within and outside Bauchi and environs that are helping us to do this, and this is also in collaboration with Bauchi state government, Ali Kawra, the Police and other security agencies. “This is so that we will be able to have some concrete engagement with a view to identifying all the bandits and armed robbers that have migrated from Zamfara State and other places looking for abode in our forests. “There are some in Yankari forests, in Lame and Burra and there are some along Dass road. The intelligence we got from DSS and other security agencies indicate that they should know that they have no hiding place in Bauchi State.” The Governor commended the Inspector General of Police (IGP) for his efforts towards deepening community engagement. He, however, handed over the recovered arms and ammunition to the Commissioner of Police (CP), Philip Maku. “We will now surrender the arms and ammunition received from Ali Kwara to the Nigeria Police for custody and also ask the Nigerian military to put their members in Ali Kwara’s team. “We are ready to support them with a wherever token of support in terms of mobility and logistics to keep Bauchi state safe and secured,” added said. Speaking, Ali Kwara told the Governor that the guns were recovered from bandits hidden underground in Burra forest after a tipoff report. He said, “There is an armed robber we’ve been trailing for long, he is involved in a kidnapping in this area and he also operates around Taraba, Benue and Plateau states. He used to come from Zamfara State. “He was brought to me voluntarily by his father had noticed that I have swung into action that has affected some of his colleagues. When he came, he informed me that there are strangers who have smuggled arms into Bauchi and that he took part in hiding the guns underground.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .