Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday marked one year of his survival in last year’s helicopter crash with a thanksgiving service at the Aso Villa Chapel, Abuja. Specifically one year ago, Osinbajo and 11 others escaped unscathed in a helicopter crash in Kabba, Kogi State, as he campaigned for the 2019 general elections. Osinbajo, who spoke with State House correspondents after the thanksgiving service yesterday, joined by his wife, Dolapo, family members and his aides, including some of those who were with him when the incident took place, described the development as “an awesome and incredible deliverance.” “I think that what happened on that occasion was so amazing, so miraculous; 12 of us in a helicopter; the helicopter crashed and not one scratch on any one of us. “That’s just incredible. So, we can only continue to thank God and to praise the Lord Jesus Christ for the awesome deliverance of so many of us. So, we just keep thanking God. “That’s why we are here this morning to just praise God,” Osinbajo said. The Vice President said the survival of all the people in the helicopter crash demonstrated God’s mercy and has strengthened his faith in God and in the Nigerian nation, adding: “Can you imagine a situation where you survived a helicopter crash?  I think it demonstrates that God is merciful; God is awesome; He is able to do all things. “I think it just strengthened my faith and the faith of all those who were there.” Chaplain of the Aso Villa Chapel, Revd. Seyi Malomo, said the incident was “a miracle for Nigeria; it is not just for His Excellency alone, it’s for the President. It is for every one of us.” Malomo said that thanksgiving was an injunction in all faiths and is necessary when God does something that defies human understanding. “When God has done something great for you, it is just necessary to say thank you. “We all know that that is part of our culture. All faith, all religion; thank you is part of our language, but when what He did is even beyond imagination — 12 people in an aircraft, no scratch — it could only be God,” Malomo said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .