• Begins work on uncompleted secretariat buildings
• FG appoints Ekiti First Lady WASH ambassador Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi yesterday said that all projects abandoned by previous administrations would be completed by his administration for public use in a bid to put an end to the ugly trend of project abandonment in the state. The governor said that the move to complete all the projects would not stop him from completing projects that were conceived by his administration within available resources. He said the need to stop the wastage of public funds associated with abandoned projects necessitated the passage of the transition law, which forbids new administration from abandoning projects of the previous administration in the state. Fayemi stated this in Ado-Ekiti when he inspected construction work at the two office buildings that had been abandoned for 12 years at the state secretariat complex during his on-the-spot assessment and inspection of major project sites across the state. The governor, who was accompanied by his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi; Commissioner for Works, Mr. Sola Adebayo; the Head of Service, Mrs. Peju Babafemi and other top government officials, visited road and building projects. He said he was satisfied with the pace and quality of work being done by the various contractors, adding that the contractors were working hard to deliver the projects within the time-frame given to them. Fayemi said that the abandoned secretariat buildings and some other road projects abandoned by previous administrations would be completed and commissioned for public use because they were all products of the taxes paid by the citizens, which must be put to proper use. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has appointed the First Lady of Ekiti State, Erelu Bisi Fayemi, as the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) ambassador for the campaign of open defecation in the state. Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said that the designation of Mrs. Fayemi as WASH ambassador in the state was part of Federal Government’s effort to end open defecation across Nigeria by 2025 and promote water sanitation and hygiene.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .