Special Adviser to the President on Social Investments, Maryam Uwais (left); Chief Investment Officer, Heirs Holdings, Sam Nwanze; Representative of Special Adviser to the Ford Foundation, Adesuwa Ighile; The Academic Director, Lagos Business School, Prof. Olayinka David-West and Chief Executive Officer, 54gene, Abasi Ene-Obong at the Businessday special panel session “Impact inventing and funding of SDGS in Nigeria at Social media week in Lagos… yesterday. PHOTOS: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI If the media must remain adequate, and enjoy wider reach, traditional, and digital platforms must collaborate. This was part of the submission yesterday, at the ongoing Social Media Week (2020) Lagos. At the session themed: “Will Traditional Media Survive in the Digital Age,” panellists suggested a more robust, coordinated and centralised activities between traditional and digital platforms. Founder, Arcadia Mobile TV, Akintunde Marinho, urged content providers to collaborate with traditional media such as Nigeria Television Authority (NTA). Marinho claimed that NTA has a powerful tool that should be leveraged by other broadcast media for wider reach. But for the Chief Operating Officer,  Envivo, Uzoma Onwuchekwa, to encourage collaboration, NTA should be taken off national budget, adding that this will foster better partnership with other media houses. “I believe that if NTA is taken off national budget, it would have the drive and hunger to reach out to viewers and make money, and thereby spurred to collaborate, and innovate to meet 21st Century challenge and requirements,” he stated. He posited that digitally, Nigeria was going to get better as time goes on. Also speaking, Executive Director, Media Investment, Yinka Adebayo, said going forward, collaboration was the in-thing. Adebayo, who harped strongly on content creation as key strategy for both traditional and digital media, posited that there has to be mergers and acquisition in the media just like in banks, to enthrone a stronger media landscape in the country. He noted that traditional media will remain relevant due to adoption of innovation and convergence, “though in new forms, creation of more jobs and multiple platforms online and web tams as well as interactivity and multimedia.” To the Vice President, Sales Skooleeo, Amaka Nwoko, the media would soon experience a great transformation, and would no longer be considered traditional or digital, “and there would be a balance in the next 10 years.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .