Rising from its National Executive Council (NEC) meeting yesterday, in Abuja, the Natural Oil and Gas Suppliers Association of Nigeria (NOGASA), said a new strategy is being developed to tackle the menace of pipeline vandalism in the country. The development comes when the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), earlier this week, said cases of oil pipeline vandalism rose by 94 per cent in November 2019, with the economic saboteurs rupturing about 68 points against the 35 tally of the preceding month. The Association’s National President, Benneth Korie, who decried the development, also assured of NOGASA’s support for government efforts in sanitising the industry. When asked about the strategies the Association will deploy to address the challenge, he said: “We are in the oil and gas supply business, and we know what to do. We have our men; we won’t tell you because you will expose us. When we start, you will see it by yourself.” He also said the Association would begin to issue waybill to identify members that load from government-approved depots, in efforts to address adulterated products in the market. “We are not going to depots to extort money from people. We won’t collect money from anybody in any depot in Nigeria. Though we know others do that, as oil and gas suppliers, we will, for now, concentrate on our business,” Korie added.    
On financial support to run operations, he said: “We will complete the agreement whereby we will support any NOGASA member that wants to take loan from a bank by going to the bank to possibly stand for him and make sure he gets the loan. If he gets the loan, on our part, we are going to make sure that the product is delivered, and the money is paid back to the bank. I’m sure before the end of this month, we will conclude with the banks,” he said. He also said the group will from next week begin the full supply of petroleum products across the country, including industrial areas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .