Director/Proprietress, Estaport Schools, Biola Awote (left); Chairperson of the Nigeria Police Taekwondo, Chief Superintendent of Police,  Stella Ebikefe and Chairman, Parents’ Teachers’ Association (PTA), Estaport Schools, Wale Adewunmi during the presentation of the first place trophy to the captain of Blue House at the weekend… PHOTO: ADAKU ONYENUCHEYA. It was a massive display of skills by students of Blue House in the various events at the weekend, as they emerged overall winners of the Estaport Schools’ 21st Inter-house sport competition. At the colourful event, Blue House came first in the competition with 24 gold, 17 silver and 14 bronze medals, while Red House came second with 17 gold, 22 silver, 11 bronze medals, Green House came third with 13 gold, 13 silver, 18 bronze medals, while Yellow House finished in the fourth position with 10 gold, 12 silver and 19 bronze medals. The annual competition, which took place at the school compound in Gbagada, Lagos, saw students from the primary and secondary schools vying for honours in various track and field events, including 75 metres, 80 meters, 100 metres and 200 metes races, as well as the relay race, tug of war, filling the bottle, football, march past, dumbbell race, obstacle race, egg and spoon race, as well as sack race, among others. The invited schools were not left out of the competition, as they participated in the relay race with medals and prizes given to the winners. The schools included India School, Christ the King School, Emerald School and Lead Forte School. The parents and staff also participated in a race in which prizes were given to the first, second and third place winners. The event also featured a football match between the host, Estaport Schools and India School, which ended 2-1 in favour of the host team. The founder of Estaport Schools, who is a former Minster of Housing and Establishment, Mobolaji Oshomo, expressed delight at the efforts put in place for the success of the event. “I am very impressed because the teachers put in a lot of efforts, from their sport wears to the games. It is something to be proud of. I salute the parents for coming out to support the school and their children,” she said. She described sport as essential in the education of children, adding that it opens the child up mentally and physically and “also teaches them to be able to accommodate themselves within the challenges of the world.” The Chairman, Parents’ Teachers’ Association (PTA), Estaport Schools, Wale Adewunmi, commended the house masters for the performance of the students, especially in the football match, noting that this year’s games were much more interesting than the previous years. “You can see the invited schools came out with their teams and the competitions were very well played out and we are all excited,” he said. Adewunmi, however, encouraged parents to be more involved in the sporting activities of their children despite their busy schedule, saying it aids in the development of the children. Speaking on the sport activities, the Director/Proprietress, Estaport Schools, Biola Awote, said a lot of effort was put in to ensure every child participated in the various sport activities, as part of the school’s leave no child behind, adding that the children have done well in each of the games.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .