The Lagos State chapter of the Ozoro Progressive Union (OPU) at the weekend advocated that the governorship or deputy governorship slot should be zoned Isoko nation in 2023. President of OPU, Kennedy Ozofere, said the Isoko people of Delta State have been politically supportive to other zones of the state since the advent of democratic governance over 20 years ago, without a commensurate political office in compensation for their support and tremendous assistance. “Isoko is one of the zones in the state that makes Delta State be what it is today. Since the nation’s return to democracy, we have been a major factor in supporting successive governors to win elections in the state and all that we have been compensated with ended with special assistants (SAs), personal assistants (Pas) and at best commissioner. “We have now decided to take our destiny into our own hands and that is why we say, come 2023, either the governor or the deputy must emerge from Isoko and anything we do not accept anything short of that. “We are also saying that the Peoples Democracy Party (PDP) should zone either the governor or deputy to Isoko.” Also speaking, Paul Okuweh Eterigho, said Isoko has not benefited from the dividends of democracy, adding that the only period that the area benefitted from the real ‘dividend of democracy’ was during former Governor James Onanefe Ibori’s administration. He said, “When Ibori was governor, every road in the region was tarred and lots of things were done, but since he left power, other successive governors have done nothing in terms of developing that part of the state.” They, therefore, pleaded with Ibori and other political leaders to support the yearnings of the group and ensure that either the governor or deputy governor emerged from Isoko zone in 2023. They also appealed to Ibori to show the magnanimity he exhibited in ensuring that Governor Okowa emerged governor from Delta North and returned to office for a second term, insisting that he (Ibori) should give the same support to the Isoko to produce the next governor or deputy governor of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .