MFM FC defeated Kano Pillars 3-1 at the Agege Stadium…on Sunday. MFM FC striker, Clement Ogwu believes his club has the ability to inflict another defeat against Kano Pillars when they meet in a match day 20 fixture of the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) at the weekend. MFM beat Kano Pillars 3-1 in week 19 of the season on Sunday through goals from Kabir Adeniji in the 52nd minute, and a brace by substitute, Clement Ogwu, in the 65th, and 81st minutes. It was Pillars’ first loss since they were beaten 1-0 by Jigawa Golden Stars in the match four of the league. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Clement, who posted a man-of-the-match effort, stated that it was a big relieve to the players after their victory against Pillars, especially after they suffered a shock 0-1 home loss to Enyimba in the match day 18. “Our win against Kano Pillars was due to the determination by the players, because we came together and resolved that we cannot afford to lose against Pillars as that will take us down again on the league table after the defeat against Enyimba in week 18. “We said to ourselves since we were able to break the unbeaten run of Dakkada FC of Akwa Ibom that we will do the same thing too to break the unbeaten run of Kano Pillars. And that we were able to achieve,” he said, adding that if they had played draw or lost to Pillars that it would have demoralised the team in their subsequent games. For the NPFL match day 20, the Olukoya Boys are again scheduled to meet the Masu Gida in the reverse fixture at the Sani Abacha Stadium, as the NPFL enters second round. According to Ogwu, “if we can repeat the performance that led us defeating the Pillars at the Agege Stadium that means victory is achievable against them on their home soil in Kano. “I believe we can repeat the win in Lagos against the Pillars in Kano in the reverse if we can be focused and work together as a unit. The same determination that saw us through at the Agege Stadium can be reproduced in Kano. We can do it in Kano,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .