Chief Willy Ezugwu Says national chairman may destroy party, nation’s democracy
he Conference of Nigerian Political Parties (CNPP) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to be wary of the activities of National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole. CNPP, which is umbrella body of opposition political parties in the country, said Oshiomhole’s actions and utterances were capable of destroying the APC and democracy in the country. Secretary General of the CNPP, Chief Willy Ezugwu, stated this in a statement issued in Abuja yesterday, while reacting to Oshiomhole’s threat that no person would be sworn in as Bayelsa State Governor in spite of a Supreme Court judgment to that effect. Insisting that it would have been disastrous to disobey the the judgement delivered by the highest court in the land, it stated, “a person whose character is inconsistent, worsened by obvious feelings of insecurity and impulsivity, will spell doom for the APC.” “This can be explained by several impulsive decisions the APC National Chairman have made, especially in order to save face in his obvious attempt to act more confidently and in control than he really is. “Nothing can harm the APC as a party more than this kind of leadership. It is clear that the loss of Zamfara, Rivers and now Bayelsa State are not too good testimonies of his leadership as they portray the party as lacking in internal democracy, which is not a good example to all other political parties. “It is observable that Nigerians are gradually getting fed up with the many political comedies ascribed to Oshiomhole since he ascended the leadership of APC and the party will pay dearly for it in the nearest future if his unguarded utterances continue unbridled by the elders of his party,” Ezugwu continued, “We cannot forget his infamous call on corrupt politicians to join his party for their ‘sins’ to be forgiven. We seriously believe that Oshiomhole’s utterances have become a threat to Nigerian democracy and a show of absolute disregard to due process and a tendency to incite the people against democratic institutions and organs of government just to have his way. “As an organisation whose interest transcends party affiliations, we urge President Buhari and relevant organs of the party to restrain Oshiomhole before he does more incalculable damage to the ruling party and our hard-earned democracy.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .