In the early months of this year, a virus broke out, leading to the death of so many people. This virus is popularly known as Coronavirus and has been named as COVID-19 by World Health Virus. However, there seems to be a breakthrough as it has been announced recently that Chloroquine Phosphate is the new discovery that will help battle this life-threatening virus. This news as reported by Pharmaceutical Technology China confirms that Chloroquine, Gilead’s experimental drug, Remdesivir, and Favilavir are important in treating COVID-19. Find below reactions to the news: Who would have ever thought that Chloroquine, of all drugs, would be the anti-viral drug for Coronavirus. Those medical researchers deserve a medal. — Wale Adetona (@iSlimfit) February 20, 2020  *China approves first anti-viral drug for coronavirus as Chloroquine phosphate* Nigerian doctors and Chloroquine rn: pic.twitter.com/BpjvzAkTFw — AJ  (@r3al__AJ) February 20, 2020  It is interesting to know that Chloroquine phosphate that used to itch our body back in those days, has proven effective in treating coronavirus #COVID19 and shows positive clinical effects. The stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone. — B h a d o o s k y (@BhadmusAkeem) February 20, 2020  Lol. It has been revealed that Chloroquine cures Corona virus and now It all makes sense why no African died of the disease. Nigerian hospitals used to give us that drug like candy, growing up. If you search our systems, I’m sure you’d still find remnants of the drug inside. — Harri Obi™ (@Harri_Obi) February 20, 2020  Chloroquine distributors in Nigeria after their first shipment abroad to combat the corona virus: pic.twitter.com/EGtFWYV8Gk — 10  DaddyMO 10 (@therealdaddymo1) February 20, 2020  Doctor: Take chloroquine or die of Coronavirus. Me: pic.twitter.com/U6LrkWo6YG — Mazi Marvin the Paranoid Android (@Boboye_Ak) February 20, 2020  My fear is that Nigerians are about to abuse Chloroquine One person said: “Chloroquine can cure everything” The drug will still need to pass further trials before it can be said to cure “the coronavirus” For now, let’s be glad that something seems to be working against it. — Aproko Doctor™ (@aproko_doctor) February 20, 2020  Who knows if it’s Flagyl that would cure HIV since Chloroquine is gonna cure corona virus  pic.twitter.com/aYvZeHH0T6 — A D É K Ú N L É.  Inspires™ (@kunle_pata) February 20, 2020  Chloroquine to other drugs :
You cure malaria , I cure coronavirus , we are not the same . pic.twitter.com/JR6TExREsL — Seekthelord1st (@Seekthelord1st_) February 20, 2020  According to Aljazeera, China’s National Health Commission reported on Thursday said at least 114 new deaths from the coronavirus outbreak as of the end of Wednesday, bringing to at least 2,118 the number of fatalities nationwide. 