 University of Abuja  While 26 students would be awarded First class degrees, 866 had second-class, upper-division, 2317 graduated with Second Class Lower division, while 339 had Third Class and 52 finished with Pass. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Professor Abdul-Rasheed Na’Allah, who addressed newsmen on activities lined up for the convocation ceremony, said honorary doctorate degrees would also be conferred on two eminent Nigerians and a foreigner for their immense contribution to nation’s development. According to him, the awardees are the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Abiy Ahmed, Former Nigerian Chief of Army Staff, General Alwali Kazir, and a popular Hausa singer, Ibrahim Narambada. He said Ahmed would be recognised for his exceptional leadership qualities in bringing peace to the society, while the former Army Chief would be honored with Doctor of Political Science for his contribution to nation-building. The Vice Chancellor stated that the university had been well-positioned to become a center of excellence as well as a tourist attraction. “We have like three rivers on this land. We have hills and mountains. Our goal is to turn the University into a tourist center in which people can come in and feel happy and have little things from themselves. “We are hopeful that in doing that we are also creating research and learning opportunities for our students, especially by developing some research areas in the tourist industry.” According to him, the institution has developed zero tolerance for indiscipline going by its recent actions against bad behaviour, adding that it would not leave any stone unturned in instilling discipline in staff and students. He explained that a large number of applicants seeking admission into the university and its low admission quota was responsible for a large number of them not getting admitted. “As we increase our facility, strengthen our infrastructure, bring new hostel to campus and most of the resources we need, we will be able to convince the accreditation agencies to increase our quota. Our hands are tight because we cannot do much. Some universities admit 10 times what we admit”, he stated. Na’Allah further disclosed that foreign languages are now compulsory for students of the institution to enable them to operate globally, adding that no students would graduate without having offered a foreign language. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .