The STPP in collaboration with the International Committee of Tourism Film Festivals (CIFFT) will bring the unique film festival to Africa and partnered with the ART&TUR – International Tourism Film Festival, in Portugal. Film festivals are a growing international phenomenon that provides critical market access to outlying tourism destinations, while at the same time providing tourism revenue for towns where the festivals are hosted. Due to their level of exposure, film festivals are becoming an indispensable tool for exposing attractive (but previously unknown) destinations to a broad spectrum of tourists, including film producers. Film festivals create critical links between tourists and the communities they visit, providing future tourism development opportunities within those communities. The International Tourism Film Festival Africa (ITFFA) mainly aims to contribute to the development of domestic and international tourism while encouraging the growth of the local film industry. To promote South Africa and Africa as tourist destinations, the ITFFA encourages short film productions that showcase South African and African as tourist destinations and expose the continent to international filmmakers. The team is looking for entries from African filmmakers and producers, African national tourism ministries and agencies, African national arts and culture ministries and agencies, film commissions, film studios, and advertising agencies, bloggers/influencers. The categories include Tourism Destinations: Cities; Regions; Countries, Tourism Services: Accommodation (Hotel/Resort; Private game Reserves; Villas; Boutique Hotels; Guest Houses; Bed and Breakfasts; Safari Holiday) Tour Operators; Transport Companies (Car Rental, Airlines, Limousine, Ferries, Railways, Cruises. Other Tourism Services: Tourism Agencies, Tour guiding, Restaurants, DMC, Group travel companies, Private Travel Companies, Nature & Eco-Tourism: Rural Tourism & Agritourism; Responsible Tourism; Natural Attractions Tourism Products: Cultural Tourism; Gastronomy Tourism; Wine Tourism; MICE Tourism Spa & Wellness; UNESCO World Heritage sights (Africa) Sports & Adventure Travel: Sailing, Sea Sports, Hiking; Skiing; Bicycle Touring; Outdoor Activities Extreme Sports; Diving. Entry closes on Thursday, February 20, 2020. Interested individuals can long on to the ITFF website http://www.itff.africa and submit your entries. The Awards ceremony will follow the Film Tourism Conference in Cape Town at WTM Africa on April 7, 2020. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .