Team CIS at the end of the World School Games in Dubai… recently. The Dubai sun set on another stellar outing by under-11 World School Games (WSG) 2020 teams from across the globe, who gathered to celebrate three days of heart-warming performances. From the athletics track, the football field to the swimming pool, every team represented not just their school, but also their country with the upmost poise and sportsmanship. The event was held in two categories: the U11 games, otherwise known as the World School Primary Games and the U13 games, otherwise known as the World School Secondary Games. The 2020 WSG ended with Children International School (CIS), Lekki, Lagos placing overall second out of the 23 schools from all over the world to win the silver trophy. According to the school management, the children’s great display of sportsmanship in the three events (athletics, football and swimming) was admirable. This earned the young athletes several gold and silver medals. Mrs. Joke Chukwumah, who is the school’s proprietress, explained: “The excitement of the event draws from the developmental impact it leaves on the young children, who represent the future of our society. “We, therefore, appreciate the children’s sacrifices put into preparing for the competition. What better way could we have expressed it than according them an honourable welcome at the airport upon their arrival? Their zest and commitment was incredible. “Recent studies have shown that sports is a vital tool in the development of young people, as it has the potency of boosting their cerebral power and generally enabling them become more confident and successful individuals. The exposure children gain from it is another great advantage of the competition, as it allows children from different parts of the world to gainfully interact. This also goes a long way in building the young people’s confidence, preparing them to become transformative global citizens.” “This international sporting event debuted three years ago and CIS has constantly participated in it ever since.” Mrs. Chukwumah revealed that CIS was recently ranked the fourth best sporting school in the world by World School Games, adding, “The first three schools are non-African, making CIS Africa’s leading sporting school. “This is a source of great encouragement for the school given that they ride on a rich and balanced curriculum that covers all the aspects of 21st century learning. We are proud of how the children havebeen representing Nigeria and the whole of Africa at the games.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .