• Man sentenced to 14 years imprisonment for attempted rape of daughter A yet-to-be identified police officer has been arrested in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, following the death of his girlfriend allegedly after a round of sex. It was gathered from the residents of Atayese street, Bawa Estate in Ado Ekiti metropolis that the incident occurred on Wednesday night inside the room of the deceased. The suspect, who was a lover to the deceased, was said to have visited Ekiti from Lagos, where he works as a policeman. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, Sunday Abutu, said one of the neighbours to the deceased reported the case at Oke Ila divisional police station before his men swung into action. “The lady died inside her room and one of her neighbours reported at our office at Oke Ila in Ado Ekiti. Our detectives immediately visited the house and saw the lifeless body of the lady. The body had been evacuated and taken to the morgue of the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital,” he stated.He added that the suspect has been arrested and presently being detained in the police custody. Abutu, however, clarified that the identity of the man and his profession still remain sketchy.“We are yet to know whether he is a policeman or not. Let us wait for the outcome of our investigation, it will reveal all that,” he said. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man, Bashiru Adeyanju, has been sentenced to 14 years imprisonment by an Ado-Ekiti High court for attempted rape of his 17-year-old daughter. The presiding judge, Justice Monisola Abodunde, held that after listening to both prosecution and defense counsels, the prosecution had proved his case beyond reasonable doubt and established the case of attempted rape of the accused daughter. Earlier, the prosecution counsel, Wale Fapohunda, who doubles as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the state, said the convict committed the offences on September 10, 2017 at No 30, Irona Street, Ado-Ekiti. According to him, the victim said his father had started having sexual intercourse with her since she was 10-year-old and that her father always give her drugs to prevent pregnancy and threatened to kill her if she tells anyone.The prosecution added that the convict, whose wife had left him since when the victim was 10, said he always beat the victim whenever she refused to have sexual intercourse with him.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .