A mob in Umuoru Etiti village, Ubulu Community in Orlu West Local Government Area of Imo State have burnt down the home of a South Africa-based businessman, Declan Nsofor, for allegedly killing Odenigbo Ife in South Africa. The mob actions followed a viral video that showed Nsofor and Ife fighting in Kempton Park, South Africa in the presence of police officers when the former hit the latter on his head with a brick he found on the floor. The victim dropped to the ground instantly and the police apprehended Nsofor as people, who were initially tried to separate their fight, attempted to attack him. “Police went to intervene and during the intervention, one of the Nigerians picked up a brick and hit another Nigerian on the forehead and the victim fell down and was bleeding from the mouth and nose,” Gauteng police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said. “The suspect was immediately arrested for attempted murder. The victim was taken to Arwyp Hospital for medical treatment,” said Makhubela. Odenigbo later died at the Arwyp Hospital on Tuesday. The police also said the suspect was now being charged with murder and he was expected to have appeared at the Kempton Park Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday. Business Gone Bad
The two, said to be cousins, were allegedly fighting over a business deal gone bad. It was learnt that Odenigbo stood surety for Nsofor over a business deal. But, after several months, Nsofor didn’t pay the debt, a development that led to the fight. The video going viral on social media enranged the Amorie Ubulu youth who mobilised and set the house of the suspect on fire also destroyed his property. Imo state police spokesman, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the incident. He said that the police had begun searching for those who set the house ablaze. “Information got to the village youths whereby the angry youths of the deceased person set the house of the suspect and properties worth millions of naira ablaze,” Ikeokuwu said “We mobilised to the scene, took photographs of the burnt building. “No arrest had been made yet but serious effort is in progress to arresting the perpetrators for possible prosecution.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .