Quaden Bayles | Facebook Bullying is a global issue that has seen adverse effects on several victims with many going as far as taking their own lives. A nine-year-old schoolboy Quaden Bayles has witnessed an outpouring of love towards him after a video of him was posted by his mother Yarraka Bayles. In the clip, Yarraka addressed the issue of her son by taunted and bullied at school because he was born with achondroplasia dwarfism. In the now-viral video Quaden is seen in the back of his mum’s car moments after an incident of bullying. In tears, he says: “I’m going to die right now… give me a knife, I’m going to kill myself. Give me a knife now so I can stab myself in the heart. You watch me.” In the video posted by Yarraka Bayles, which has now seen over two million views, she says: “I just picked my son up from school, witnessed a bullying episode, rang the principal and I want people to know this is the effect bullying has. This is what bullying does. “So now we have a severely suicidal child who is sick of the bullying that is every single day that he attends school or is in public. It’s every single f****** day and we’re sick of it. “So can you please educate your children, your families, your friends because all it takes is one more instance… and you wonder why kids are killing themselves.” The heartbreaking footage of the Australian schoolboy was met with support from social media users who expressed their love for the child and told him he has a friend in them. Watch the clip below:  Among those who tried to encourage him is Wolverine and The Greatest Showman star Hugh Jackman who took to Twitter to post a video addressing both Quaden and his bullies directly. Jackman says: “Quaden, you are stronger than you know mate, and no matter what, you’ve got a friend in me” He continues: “So, everyone lets please be kind to each other, bullying is not OK. Life is hard enough, so let’s remember, every person in front of us is facing some kind of battle, so let’s just be kind.” Another celebrity, Mark Hamill who is famed for his role in Star Wars said: “The cruelty is as astonishing as it is heartbreaking.” Walking Dead star Jeffrey Dean Morgan also posted a video on Twitter, telling Quaden: “My man, I don’t know your name, I don’t know your mum’s name but I saw your video, what I want you to know is you have friends, me included, I am your buddy. “You haven’t met me yet, but we’ll see if we can change that for one, maybe your mum can DM me, you have a bunch of friends out here, out in the world that you haven’t met yet. We’re here and we’ve got your back and you need to know that, it’ll get better. “As a dad of a nine-year-old kids can be horrible and that’s because their parents aren’t doing their job. It’s going to get better. I promise it will.” A crowdfund to send Quaden to Disneyland was also set up by Australian comedian Brad Williams and it has gathered an astounding $200,000 (just over £100,000). Williams tweeted: “I just heard from a very important person who is going to help me make sure the money is spent correctly. They have a lot of experience. I want to make all who donated proud. Thank you again everyone. This has been an amazing day! #EndBullying” Quaden has also received messages of support from Australia’s National Rugby League, and the Indigenous All-Stars. The All-Stars have invited him to go out on the pitch with them this weekend.