Philip Schofield, Stephanie Lowe, and their two daughters. Image The Mirror Sometimes in the week, the TV presenter, Philip Schofield came out as gay after 27-years of marriage. He and his wife, Stephanie Lowe share two adult daughters Molly and Ruby. The 57-year-old This Morning star bravely shared his news in a heartfelt Instagram statement, thanking Stephanie and their two adult daughters Molly and Ruby for their support. In a report by The Mirror, Stephanie is “absolute shattered” that for 27 years, they have been living a lie. It says: “Steph is being a rock for Phillip, as she always has been, but there’s no denying she is absolutely shattered by all this. She and the girls love him very much and will support him as much as they can, but the knowledge they have been living a lie for so long is terribly hurtful. It’s humiliating to think that you’re married to someone who doesn’t love you the way you love them.” However, after this announcement, Phil has confirmed he is not looking for a new relationship as his romantic relationship in his marriage is over. Emotional co-star Holly Willoughby asked if he was looking for a new partner, to which he replied: “No, I don’t think so. I’m not going there. I’m doing each day at a time. This has always been a slow process. This was the big day and this is the day I knew everything was pointing towards.” When questioned about how his wife is coping with the situation, he says: “Yeah, it’s tough, but this is not something that’s happened quickly, I’ve had to deal with this in my head for quite some time. We’ve been honest and open. Steph, I can’t write in any statement what I feel about that woman. She’s amazing, she’s incredible. There is no one in my life who would have supported me the way… as a wife, as the way she’s supported me. She’s astonishing, literally astonishing,” He is happy his wife and his family at large are supportive of him, even though his wife is still trying to come to terms with all these, she has been supportive as well.