The Administrator of St. Francis Catholic Secondary School, Idimu, Lagos, Rev. FR. Maduabuchi Leo Muoneme has urged stakeholders to ensure that communities have facilities where children could develop their skills. Speaking while receiving the head of Blaugrana Sports Group International, Leslie Oghomienor in his school, Rev. Fr. Muoneme described sports as very essential to the development of children, adding that it has also helps in building a nation. Rev. Fr. Muoneme revealed that hitherto the school went all the way to Nigerian Naval facility in Apapa to train the school swimmers, adding, however, “we have more students involved in swimming since we constructed our own pool.” He added: “For life to prosper, man must adhere to development, and to achieve sustainable positive change, you must keep improving on what you have or have been doing so that tomorrow the nation through those we are nurturing here would be better and greater for it. “Thus, it is always a thing of joy to have someone selflessly coming without invitation and want to be a good part of us, by adding to us.” Apart from doing well academically, Rev. Fr. Muoneme revealed that the school has won many laurels, medals and trophies, representing the area and the diocese in sports over the years. In his reaction, an elated Oghomienor, who was taken round the school’s facilities, including a standard football pitch, with reserve benches and spectators stand, Olympic-size swimming pool, volleyball pitch, basketball court, table and long tennis facilities, and gymnasium, among others, said the school’s sports facilities were of first class and more than good enough to be used for international school sports competitions. “What is on the ground here is overwhelming. Very encouraging to see that there are people who still know what they are doing when it comes to raising a complete man or woman, who would be eminent leaders and seasoned professionals in the future,” Oghomienor said. He revealed that his organization would look for ways of adding value to what the school was already doing or want to do, no matter how little. He also called on government and its agencies to ensure that those wishing to establish schools made provision for sports facilities, adding, “a sound mind flourishes better in a healthy and strong body.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .