Captains of Blue House (left), Red House and Yellow House display their trophies during the Roshallom Schools’ inter-house sports competition in Lagos…on Tuesday. PHOTO: ADAKU ONYENUCHEYA It was a beehive of sporting activities on Tuesday when Red House emerged winners of Roshallom Schools maiden inter-house sports competition, held at the sports arena of Command Secondary School, Ipaja Lagos. Red House not only won 27 gold, 20 sliver and 10 bronze medals to emerge the overall winner of the maiden sports event, it also had its members on individual honours roll. The outstanding students are Wuraola Bankole, who won the best footballer, highest goal scorer and best athlete in the women category, while in the male category, Ukpanmwan Osahon won the highest goal scorer and best athlete, just as Idowu Oreoluwa won the most valuable football player award. Yellow House clinched the second position with 19 gold, 18 sliver and 15 bronze medals, Blue House placed third with 11 gold, 16 sliver and 18 bronze medals, while Green House held on to the fourth place with nine gold, 12 sliver and 24  bronze medals. The event had students from the nursery, primary and secondary schools participate in various track and field events, including 10 metres, 25 metres, 75 metres, 100 metres, 200 metes, 800 metres and relay races. They also participated in sack race, slippers race, lime and spoon race, tray heading race, long jump, chubby race, picking the ball race, javelin, shot put, scrabble, chess, high jump, discuss, filling the bottle, bursting the balloon, volleyball, ludo, long jump, basketball and football, among other activities. The invited schools were not left out of the competition, as they participated in relay races, with winner getting medals and prizes. Parents and staff also participated in the competition with prizes also given to the winners. In her speech, the Director and Proprietress, Roshallom Schools, Roseline Owoniyi, said the school organised the inter-house sports in line with the global support and current advocacy on sport from the grassroots. She said the theme of the event, “catch them young,” was aimed at involving all the children from the nursery class up to the secondary school, as it would give broad opportunities for early potential development to the children. The proprietress said sport could be seen as one of the catalysts of peace and progress in any nation, with numerous benefits, which cannot be over-emphasised. “Sports and games, which are the aspects of the psychomotor of the domains of learning, is receiving attention both at the grassroots and national levels. It is no wonder that many countries globally are making huge and substantial investment in sports. Through proper policy direction, children would discover various skills and desire for sports.” The guest speaker, former track and field athlete, Falilat Ogunkoya commended the students’ prowess in the various sports, noting that children were the leaders of tomorrow and would represent the country in the future. She called on government, parents and the school management to support the children with exceptional talents in achieving their goals by ensuring they combined sports and academics. Also commending the school management for their input in sports and development of the children, the Chairperson of the event, who is the Chairman of Mosan Okunola Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Princess Olabisi Adebanjo, called for more support in helping the children achieve their potential, as they will represent the country at both national and international competitions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .