 Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) Council member and NLNG Director, Mrs. Cordelia Agboti(left); NCF Chairman, Chief Ede Dafinone; NLNG GM, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs. Eyono Fatayi-Williams; Director of Forestry, Federal Ministry of Environment, Mr. Tiamiyu Sikiru and NCF Director General, Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano, at the presentation of Letter of Nomination for Finima Nature Park as a Ramsar Site of International Importance.  The nomination letter was presented by the Minister of State for Environment, Chief Sharon Ikeazor, who was represented by the Director of Forestry, Mr. Tiamiyu Sikiru, during a visit by the Ministry officials to  Finima Nature Park on Bonny Island to celebrate 2020 World Wetlands Day. The park, promoted by the Nigeria LNG Limited (NLNG) and managed by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), was established in 1999, as part of NLNG’s response to global environmental concerns and the need for a more sustainable environment. A Ramsar site is a wetland designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention which is an intergovernmental environmental treaty established by UNESCO in 1971. The Letter of Nomination is the company’s last requirement for the attainment of Ramsar Site status, having met all the other conditions, including being a haven for migratory birds and a Wetland Education Centre. On completion of the process, Finima Nature Park will be listed as one of the 2, 300 sites in the world. Presenting the letter, the minister, Chief Ikeazor, said “I have endorsed the instrument for designation of Finima Nature Park as a Ramsar Site of International Importance. I want to thank NLNG for establishing Finima Nature Park. The park shall be known globally as “Finima Nature Park” and will increase the number of Nigeria’s Ramsar Sites of International Importance to 12.” Receiving the Minister at the NLNG Plant, the General Manager for External Relations and Sustainability, Mrs. Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said NLNG is committed to ensuring a sustainable environment that will cater for the younger population as well as those unborn. She stated that the company fully understands the importance of wetlands as a means to reducing the carbon footprint of the Oil and Gas Industry’s activities in Bonny. “The philosophy underpinning the Nature Park, which acts as a carbon sink through the CO2 sequestration abilities of the vegetation, also aligns with our contribution to the reduction of gas flaring in the country through our commercialization of natural gas which would otherwise have been flared ’’she said. While giving assurance of NLNG’s commitment to protecting the park and boosting activities to encourage eco-tourism which will impact positively on socio-economic life in Bonny, Mrs Fatayi-Williams also remarked that NLNG places significance on the preservation of plant and animal species found in the wetlands of the park. Other guests at the presentation include the Chairman of NCF Council, Chief Ede Dafinone; NCF Director-General, Dr. Muhtari Aminu-Kano; member of NCF Council and a director in the NLNG Board, Chief (Mrs) Cordelia Agboti; among other NCF officials. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .