online dating | Twitter Dating in times past seemed like a straightforward but with the advent of the internet, the game has changed. Whether you like it or not, online dating is a thing and it is here to stay. If you are new to online dating, there is no need to be intimidated as a piece of friendly advice can help you understand the dos and don’ts of online dating. DO’S Keep an open mind If you are going to record success in online dating, you need to be prepared to have an open-minded. There are many people who may try to shame you for trying to find love or a partner online but keep in mind that you are exposing yourself to meeting some really cool people you may not meet otherwise. Have a catchy profile Have interesting profiles yourself in your profile. Let your profile include such as your hobbies and your interests because your profile is how potential matches get to know about you. Without chatting you up, you want to give those viewing your profile as much insight into your personality as possible. Have a good opening line Having a lame opening line like, “hey what’s up?” isn’t going to set you apart in the sea of online dating users. Read the person’s profile and reference something specific to them in your first message. This shows that you paid attention to their profile and aren’t just sending the same message to everyone. Be yourself Stay true to yourself with your online profile and when talking to matches. You might end up meeting these people in person and, if your online self is totally different than your real-life self, it might create some problems. Stay Safe Online dating can be dangerous if you don’t treat with caution hence why you need to be careful when giving out personal details. Ensure that you always meet for the first time in a public location and trust your instincts. Use your best judgement when meeting someone from online and if anything feels off, get out of there. DON’TS Guard your private information Never ever disclose personal information like your home address when talking to people on dating apps or social media. Being overly cautious with someone new is advised. Take every information with a pinch of salt Don’t be overly trusting when talking to strangers online because expecting everyone to be as honest as you are is dangerous. From posting old photos to lying about their backgrounds, people can be anything they want to be online hence why it is important to try and get to know the other party in person and preferably in a public and safe space for the first time. Don’t base your choices on just photos It is easy to get lured into the bait of choosing the most attractive profiles when dating online but it is equally as important to consider the person’s personality, traits and interests especially when you are looking for something serious. Avoid online “shopping” Don’t let too many options get the better of you. If you’ve met someone you’re interested in, there’s no need to keep looking for new suitors online. It can be easy to get distracted by the sheer number of eligible people who post dating profiles online or on mobile apps, but once you’ve got a good thing going, it might be time to delete your profile. Beware of juggling too many people at the same time. While it’s perfectly okay to go slowly and initially see more than one candidate, especially if your dates are continuing also online, the giddiness of “so many profiles, so little time” can be self-defeating. Avoid getting lured by corny pickup lines Anyone can promise you heaven and earth online. “Looking to spoil the person of my dreams with flowers and candlelit dinners.” Anyone can write something like this but few are actually interested in doing this for someone they haven’t even met yet.