Lagos State Transportation Ministry said it is focused on regulating activities of commercial hailing companies operating in its metropolis for security reasons. “The issue is that we are experiencing so many security situations in the state and we are taking charge of everything,” the spokesperson of the Ministry of Transport Bolanle Ogunlana told The Guardian on Thursday. Reacting to claims that government was stifling activities of ride-hailing companies Ogunlana said the state has not asked any operator to pay license or renewal fees. “We are not asking anyone to pay any fee now. All we want from them is that they should have all the necessary requirements to operate on Lagos roads.” An official of an agency of Lagos State Government, Vehicle Inspection Service (VIS) told The Guardian that the enforcement of already existing laws guiding the operations of professional drivers in the state began recently. The VIS officials said the drivers must have hackney permit, Lagos State Drivers’ Institute (LASDRI) certification and that the commercial vehicle hailing companies must pay the operator license fee to the state government. The enforcement of the law led to the clampdown on the operation of drivers working for the company. Commuters in different parts of Lagos were on the receiving end of government officials disrupting their trips. The drivers subsequently marched on VIS office to protest the clampdown and ‘hefty regulation fee’ the government placed on the companies. However, the spokesperson of the transportation ministry said the government was still in discussions with relevant stakeholders to come up with operational guidelines including an operational fee. “We are still consulting with the companies to come up with a proper guideline and regulation fee for these companies,” Ogunlana said. She said the claims were all sponsored by certain people who were not  happy about the okada and Keke ban in six local governments in Lagos State.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .