Beneficiaries waiting to pick their goats in Maiha Local Government Area of Adamawa State. PHOTO: EMMANUEL ANDE To lessen the hardship experienced in the Northeast region due to activities of Boko Haram insurgents, which led to the killing of over six million animals, the Victims Support Funds (VSF) has commenced distribution of 3,600 goats to victims of the insurgency. The livelihood of 60 per cent of the people of the region is on livestock breeding due to the desert nature of the area, which does not favor rain season farming. The killing of the animals signifies that the lifespan of the people in the zone has been cut down by over 70 per cent. The agro support project design by VSF, under the chairmanship of Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma aims at restoring the hope of the victims and to assure them of survival without begging for alms. During the flag-off of the scheme tagged: Agro Support Project in Maiha Local Government Area of Adamawa State, Chairman of VSF, Danjuma said the objective of the project in the Northeast is to support the victims with agricultural resources for food production. Represented by his deputy, Alhaji Tijani Tumsa, Danjuma said the intervention is targeted at 300 households in each states of Adamawa, Borno and 600 in Yobe State, pointing out that 3,600 goats will be distributed to the selected beneficiaries. “This intervention is targeting households in Kwayakusa local government in Borno, Maiha local government in Adamawa and Fika and Potiskum local governments in Yobe State. VSF is collaborating with the states FADAMA III project, ministry of agriculture and ministry of livestock to ensure the provision of routine veterinary services to the benefitting households. “Each household will receive three female and one male goats, in order to ensure maximum productivity,” he said. The Executive Director of VSF, Prof. Sunday Ocheche, warned the beneficiaries against selling the animals, pointing out that the tracking technology fixed on the goats’ ears is to help track beneficiaries that attempt to sell the goats. He said the essence is to allow the animals produce up to two times before they are permitted to sell. This, he said will checkmate disposing the animals early which, according to him may defeat the aim of the project. Chairman of Maiha local government, Mr. Idi Amin, who commended VSF for the choice of his council to benefit from the gesture promised to deploy his livestock department to monitor the project for efficiency.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .