To reduce time and money wastage in procuring electrical materials for home and office use, Kari-care Technology Limited, a multi-billion naira company that deals in sales and services of quality electrical equipment, has expressed its readiness to start training technicians in the country with a view to making them render world standard services to Nigerians. The Chief executive officer of Kari-care Nigeria Limited, Eng. Daere Akobo who disclosed this during the official launch of the company at Oko-Awo, Victoria Island, Lagos on Friday, bemoaned how technicians have subjected many Nigerians to different horrors like fire outbreak, says his newly commissioned company would not just sell quality electrical products but also train millions of technicians in Electrical, mechanical and plumbing business. Akobo who also doubles as the Chief Executive officer of PE Energy argued that service rendered by many quack technicians in the country have rendered many homeless, while some have sustained certain degrees of injuries. This is why Kari Care plans to train technicians in electrical, mechanical and plumbing business with a view to helping rebuild the nation’s workforce and reduce the number of quacks in the country. The Chief Executive officer also called on the federal government to amend the nation’s education curriculum to accommodate technical schools and institutes where artisans and other unskilled workers could be properly trained for nation development. Speaking further at the newly commissioned experience Centre for Kari Care, Akobo however revealed that the firm was a vision given to him by God with a view to creating no fewer than 4000 jobs for both young and old which would be employed directly and indirectly by our firm. According to him, the whole idea was to create an enabling environment where technicians can be retrained and reoriented for rendering good services. Kari-Care was conceptualized with a vision to facelift the nation’s workforce and consequently reduce unemployment rate. “At least, over two million people will be recruited through Kari care office and we are going to train them in a way to reduce the number of quacks in the building industry.
We would hire both old young men and women of integrity”. Kari-Care want to build an ecosystem in the industry whereby individual can reach out to a particular technician from a given location without any fear of being swindled. Speaking on the mode of operation, the General Manager, Operation, Miss Wamide Egunjobi, Kari-care Nigeria limited, the multibillion-naira company revolves round four cardinal points of Technician services, Product E-Commerce place, Turnkey building through improvement solution at experience Centre and Skill improvement training Centre. Egunjobi explained that experience Centre is where customers come to relate directly with Kari-care executives and products, while Skills improvement training centre is an institute that will take off soon for the training of many technicians. “Kari care will soon launch its website for E-commerce centre where people can seat at the comfort of their room and place a precision order for quality materials for a construction or rehabilitation purpose” “At KariCare, we provide an ecosystem for meeting all building improvement and maintenance needs,” she added. Our software can calculate the quantity of electric materials that are needed for a particular structure. Egunjobi said, “We are a marketplace for purchasing the very best quality products required for carrying out building improvement and maintenance activities as platform to hire trained, certified and reliable local technicians,”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .