AbdulRazaq More encomiums have come the way of Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, as the government embarks on massive rehabilitation of schools and other basic amenities across the state. A delegation of Old Students Association of Patigi Secondary School, Patigi Local Government, led by the Etsu Patigi Ibrahim Umar Bologi II, commended AbdulRazaq for the comprehensive renovation of the school 50 years after it was established, and other high-impact projects of the administration. The Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, disclosed that the delegation, which include the Etsu Tsaragi Aliyu Ndakpotwa Abdullahi; former Head of Service Mohammed Dabarako; and former Permanent Secretary Mohammed Koro, called on the Governor to keep up the good job. “Since the establishment of our alma mater (Patigi Secondary School) some 50 years ago, no government has done what you are doing in the area of comprehensive rehabilitation. We are here, following our grand patron (the Etsu Patigi), to commend you for the numerous things you have been doing for our communities,” Ndakpotwa said. He said Dabarako, who is the chairman of the upcoming 50th anniversary’s central working committee, said the alumni association is pleased with the renovation of the school, adding: “It will be naïve on our part not to come and thank you.” Dabarako, among other requests from Edu/Patigi axis of the state, urged the government to help prevail on Aso Rock to dredge the River Niger from Baro to Jebba to curb the perennial flooding in Patigi and Edu local governments. “Secondly, for quite some time now the issue of Hydroelectric Power Area Development Commission (HYPADEC) has been going on. We request for your timely intervention on this matter in the area of appointment of executive director to the office of HYPADEC from Edu/Patigi region that is mostly affected by the flood,” he said. AbdulRazaq, who commended the delegation for the visit, said the ongoing school rehabilitation was necessitated by years of neglect in the education sector and the near collapse of basic amenities across board. He said the 31 schools currently being renovated were the first phase of what would be continuous rehabilitation of education facilities in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .