Spring Festival celebration in China…Coronavirus prevented many cities and countries from enjoying the festivity this year Though the sight of people wearing surgical masks is becoming more common in countries with large number of Chinese nationals because of the coronavirus spreading around the world, spectacle lovers in Nigeria were undaunted recently, as they trooped out in great numbers to join in the Spring Festival or Chinese New Year celebrations in Lagos. Just like Christmas in western countries, Chinese New Year, or known as Chinese Spring Festival, is the most important festival for Chinese people. It is 15-day long, with lots of preparations starting long ahead of time. Every year, such celebrations have often attracted hundreds of spectators who come to watch an array of cultural displays, miming, karaoke, eating Jiao Zi (or dumplings), setting off firecrackers, dragon and lion dance and pasting paper-cuts. Organised by the Nigeria Huaxing Art Troupe, with support from the Consulate General of People’s Republic of China in Lagos, the event held at the Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos. Speaking at the event, the Consular General of the Chinese Embassy in Nigeria, Chu Mao Ming, said the Chinese government is committed to strengthening the bilateral relation with Nigeria, adding that the partnership will bear more fruits and foster economic partnership. Speaking on the Coronavirus in China, Ming noted, “as we celebrate the Chinese New Year, government has attached great importance to the prevention and eradication of the disease.  We will fight the disease and we will make the people of Wuhan safe and sound.” Also speaking, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, noted, “Lagos is open for commerce, tourism, and business opportunities and with the industrial focus to grow the nation’s economy, we see ourselves as investors, economic partners, and collaborators that will bring about positive development to our business community and our state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .