When growing out your natural hair, protective hairstyles play a considerable role in the health of your hair. These hairstyles help prevent damage to your hair, keeping your hair at its prime. As a naturalista, you must understand that your hair routine doesn’t just end at a wash-and-go. There is a need for protective hairstyles that will not only keep your hair in shape but also protect it from elements bound to damage it. These protective hairstyles are great for all hair types and lengths, and they prevent your hair from breaking. Here are 6 protective hairstyles every naturalista should know: Popularly known as ‘all-back’, cornrows remain a timeless protective hairstyle for all hair types and lengths. Cornrows are recommended for naturalistas, especially those who wear wigs. They are also quick and easy to do. To start with, cut out a straight section of hair from the front to the back of your hair and split into three sections. Braid like normal, adding hair to each strand as you continue to braid down the back of your head. At the end of your scalp, continue braiding down the length of your hair. Repeat this process until your entire hair is woven. Knotless braids have been a trendy hairstyle for some time, and there’s no denying the cuteness of braids. Braids work to shield your natural hair as they grow to allow your hair to grow within them. Knotless box brads are advised because braiders start with your natural hair instead of extensions reducing the tension at your scalp. This allows the braid to be more comfortable, giving less chance for breakage. Knotless box braids can be worn on all hair lengths and types. To take your braids up a notch, you can add some beads to the ends of your braids. Knotless braids. Photo Pinterest Flat twists are a mix of cornrows and traditional twists, and they are a great protective hairstyle for both natural and relaxed hair. This hairstyle supports the growth of afro-textured hair, and they are easy to pull off. Start by sectioning your hair from your hairline to the nape of your neck into sections about one inch wide. Spilt a section into two and twist as normal starting at the root, as you twist, add more hair from that section into your twist. At the nape of your hair, twist your hair down its length as normal. Flat twists. Photo Pinterest Puffs are a go-to hairstyle for many naturalistas as they are quick and easy to pull off. A simple, sleek bun is a chic look that protects your hair. To create the natural bun, add water and gel to your hair, brushing it up into a high ponytail. Next, tie with a hairband to keep your ponytail in shape. For those with shorter hair, you can also opt to add a faux afro puff extension to add volume to your natural bun. 5. FAUX LOCS Another popular protective hairstyle, faux locs are a great hairstyle for those who love locs but are not ready to permanently commit to them. They could be installed using the crochet or braiding method. Using the crochet method, faux braids are crocheted under your cornrows. To use the braiding method, braid your natural hair and wrap each braid with faux locs until the entire braid is covered. curly crochet faux locs , Pinterest 6. WIGS Wigs are an essential protective hairstyle for natural hair. They are super versatile and can help you create whatever hairstyle you want. Whether you opt to get a braided wig, short hair wig or long hair wig, wigs can help you achieve whatever hairstyle you want. For wigs, you can opt for either synthetic wigs or human hair wigs. Synthetic wigs are a lot more affordable than human hair wigs, although they have a shorter life span. Protective hairstyles are great for maintaining the health of your hair. They also offer you a variety of hairstyles to choose from, and you shouldn’t be afraid to try out these hairstyles to figure out which of them you like best and feel most comfortable in. These protective hairstyles are easy to make and also very easy to maintain.