Workers and employers in the country have been assured of easier access to compensation for work related accidents as provided for in the Employee Compensation Act 2010. This was part of the communiqué released at the end of the board and management retreat of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State from Thursday, February 6, to Sunday, February 9, 2020. Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, declared the retreat with the theme, “In pursuit of Corporate Growth and Contribution to National Economic Development,” open and commended the NSITF for discharging its duties in accordance with the laws that established it. The governor, who was represented by Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Emmanuel Ekuwem, also thanked the NSITF for choosing Akwa Ibom State for the retreat and urged the participants to make use of the opportunity to reposition the NSITF to enable it perform better. “The importance attached to social security in other parts of the world has helped to entrench social security in United States of America and Europe and same would happen in Nigeria if the NSITF is positioned to function appropriately,” he said.He pointed out that Akwa Ibom would work hard to ensure that civil servants in the state are immediately enrolled into the scheme considering its many benefits. On his part, Minister for Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, said the NSITF has the capacity to contribute meaningfully to the economic development of the country by enhancing productivity for workers and employers. Ngige enjoined states of the country and all private employers of labour yet to enroll their workforce in the scheme to key into the NSITF to improve the overall social environment and harmony in the work place. Speaking with newsmen, Chairman of NSITF, Austin Ejemudo-Isire said deliberations at the retreat have been constructive and fruitful, which would enable the NSITF to break new grounds in the coming years. According to him, one of the decisions taken at the retreat was the need to engage in robust public enlightenments to encourage expansion of the number of participants in the scheme. Managing Director of NSITF, Adebayo Somefun, said that arising from the retreat, the outfit was poised to exceed its achievements in the payment of compensation, rehabilitation and prevention of work place injuries.Highlight of the retreat were presentation of reports by different departments, presentations by resource persons including Professor Pat Utomi and syndicate group discussions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .