Oboh Nigeria’s golf sensation, Georgia Oboh has taken her quest to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games to Australia, where she participate in two Ladies European Tour (LET) events. In her second year at the LET train, Oboh wants to improve on her 2019 performance to stand the chance of becoming the first Nigerian to feature in the golf event of the Olympics. Although, funding, according to her team, is still in short supply, Oboh is happy that the Nigerian family in Perth, Australia has come to her aid. The Guardian learnt that Mr. Dabe Oki and his family in Perth Australia have supported her Australian leg of tournaments, which are part of the 24 events in the LET card for the 2020 season. The 24 tournaments has a record-breaking 18 million euros as prize money. Oboh got the nod the feature in the 2020 season after a marathon examination at the LET Qualifying final recently at the famed La Manga Club South Course in Spain. She was one of the 65 professional players who successfully scaled the through the qualifying test. Oboh, who last year became a member of the LET, shot a closing round 75 and edged the 72-hole cut set at 298 by one stroke. A total field of 120 players attended the qualifying school. The Nigerian, who is a rookie on the Ladies European Tour, had to pass through the demanding path of Qualifying School for the new season after ranking 124th on the Order of Merit for 2019 out the 140 listed players. Amy Boulden came top at the 2020 Qualifying School. She closed the Final Stage with a round of five-under-par 68 on the South Course for a 90-hole total of 351, 10-under-par to win by three strokes from Magdalena Simmermacher and Alison Muirhead. The 26-year-old from Llandudno in Wales, whose career-best finish in six years on tour was second in the 2014 Lacoste Ladies Open de France, had set a personal target of 12-under-par for the qualifier. The 2020 LET Schedule will feature seven new tournaments in addition to a $1 million Saudi Ladies Championship as well as the Mithra Belgian Ladies Open, the Dutch Ladies Open and VP Bank Swish Ladies Open.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .