Preparations are in top gear for the annual Leopard Ladies Golf Tournament and Beauty Pageants, which third edition is scheduled to hold in Lagos. The organizing committee, comprising veteran lady golfers such as Maureen Reece (Chairperson), former Lady Captain of both Ibadan Golf Club and Tiger Golf Club, Sumbo Oshile, the coordinator, Remi Johnson and Mary Gabriel, yesterday revealed that every participant in the unique golf and beauty show would be clad in leopard skin print attire, according to the tradition and concept of the tournament. The committee explained, “The idea is to show a desire to connect with nature, interact and enjoy the serenity of the lush green golf course.” The high-class golf tournament, which attracts top lady golfers from across the country and the West African sub-region, was designed to focus on enhancing women empowerment and reaching out to women through golf. “The Leopard Golf and Beauty Pageant is not just one of a golf tournament like we used to”, Maureen Reece explained.   “It is a unique one conceptualised to showcase our tradition and wearing leopard print is a way of saying I am a woman, who is not afraid of being identified with African chutzpah,” she added. This year’s edition, according to the coordinator of the event, Sumbo Oshile, has enjoyed endorsement and support from diverse field of golfers, including Lady Captain of Aba Golf Club, Ongodi Nkwoji; Yèyè Modupe Oyeduntan of Ikeja Golf Club; Dr. Amaka Okoye of Enugu Golf Club; Dr. Ayo Ani of Ikoyi Golf Club; Lt Fisayo Daranijo of the Tiger Golf Club; Chief (Mrs.) Iyabo Ogunnaike of Ikeja Golf Club; Mrs. Funke Moore of Ikeja Golf Club; Biodun Hassan of both Ikeja/Abeokuta Golf Club; Chichi Charles -Alamu of Ikeja Golf Club; Susan Cole-Kotas of Port Harcourt Golf Club 1928; Dr. Tope Farombi, the immediate past Lady captain of Ibadan Golf Club; Mrs. Remi Johnson of Ikoyi /Ewekoro Golf Club, who supports the event with Airline Tickets; Nike Jimoh of Abeokuta Golf Club; and Mrs. Ekundayo Oshin of Ibadan Golf Club, among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .