Ohanaeze lauds S’East govs on regional security idea There is disquiet over allegations that soldiers invaded the Afaraukwu, Umuahia, home of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu. This is as Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) warned yesterday that it would not condone any action that could undermine the security of the South East zone by the army. It was learnt that fierce-looking soldiers numbering about 100 on Sunday barricaded and occupied the roads leading to the Afaraukwu residence of Kanu. The development reportedly created tension in the area, as traders locked up their shops and scampered to safety, as the soldiers patrolled the area in two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs). The invasion is linked to the burial of Kanu’s parents slated for February 14.Reacting to the development yesterday, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, which said it would hold a crucial Imeobi meeting this Sunday, warned against intimidation or harassment of mourners and the people of Afara Ibeku by soldiers. Deputy National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chuks Ibegbu in a statement expressed dismay with the “undue military incursion around the home of Nnamdi Kanu few days to the burial of his parents” and cautioned against any breach in the security of lives and property of the people. Also, MASSOB condemned the continuous patrol of the army around the palace of the late Eze Israel Kanu and the temporary blockage of the road leading to the palace. Meanwhile, efforts to get the military speak on the matter yesterday failed. In another vein, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council yesterday lauded the idea of South East Governors’ Forum (SEGF) led by Gov Dave Umahi to float the South East Regional Security outfit, describing the initiative as timely. A statement in Abakaliki by the national president of OYC, Okechukwu Isiguzoro, read in part, “The security outfit will help in curbing inter- and intra-state crimes committed by miscreants, kidnappers, bandits and herdsmen and the incessant crimes committed during farming seasons, especially rape of mostly Igbo mothers. “OYC urges the South East governors to involve all stakeholders in the regional security outfit, as we believe that Amotekun was copied from the original ideas of South East security outfit which was designed by South East governors.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .