 Governor Dapo Abiodun. Photo: TWITTER/DABIODUN  While describing the elevation as political appointments that were alien to Yoruba Obaship stool, Afuape said the appointment of Obas must follow procedure, noting that those appointments failed to follow those processes, and thereby fell short of the standard of installing Obas in the state. Recall that Amosun had elevated the 75 chiefs to minor Obas at the twilight of his administration. But on assuming office, Governor Dapo Abiodun set up a review committee led by the Olu of Ilaro and paramount ruler of Yewaland, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle to investigate the development. The committee after its findings recommended the reversal of the elevation done by Amosun and at the State Executive Council’s first sitting on Thursday, the SEC approved the revocation of the appointments. The Commissioner said if the traditional institution is to be saved from decadence, there must be a cleanup of the mess created by the past administration, adding that the institution is to be revered and respected at all times. Afuape assured that those who have genuine cases would be allowed to start the process again and if found qualified, they would be given the stool. “They know that there are processes and procedures. Let them start the process again, if they are qualified, they will be given the Oba’s stool” Afuape said. Speaking on the appointment of Caretaker Committees for the Local Governments, Afuape said the state has not run foul of the law, saying the law of Ogun State Local Government has made provision for the Governor to do so. According to Ogun State Local Government Law No. 26 of 2002, No. 37 of 2006, s.5 he quoted that “if upon expiration of the term of office of a Council or Local Government Chairman, elections to fill the vacancies thereby created cannot, for any reason, hold as stipulated by this law, the Governor may by order appoint a Transition Committee of not more than seven members consisting of Chairman, Vice Chairman and Secretary to oversee the affairs of such Council or Local Government, subject to the approval of majority of the members of House of Assembly. “Also stipulated is that; “where a Transition Committee is appointed under the provisions of (1) of this section, the Transition Committee shall have and discharge, in accordance with this law, all the combined functions and power of such Council or Local Government as stipulated under this Law or any other enactment.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .