From today, reality TV fans will be introduced to another unique personality in a brand-new reality show, Ultimate Love. The show is premised on single men and women living together in a Love Pad with the hopes of finding love that will culminate in marriage. They will compete and carry out different tasks as couples that will test their bond and win the public’s votes. The ultimate prize is finding love but there will be other mouth-watering prizes including an all-expense-paid traditional wedding ceremony and a fully furnished home — if the winning couple decides to get married. However, before they arrive at this point, they are going to be governed by a pivotal character on the show, aptly referred to as ‘Aunty’. Nobody knows what her catch phrase will be: Is it ‘This is Aunty!’ like ‘This is Big Brother!’? Those four words that have become a popular catch phrase with lovers of reality TV show, Big Brother? Even after four seasons, many are still tickled by the concept of the reality show that focuses on a group of male and female housemates governed by the all-seeing  Big Brother. This personality, fondly called ‘Biggie’ is the show’s protagonist, the owner of the house, and the one whose rules must not be broken. His voice is distinct, echoing throughout the house and bringing its inhabitants to submission when necessary. No one sees Biggie. His voice is all you need to hear as a reminder of your stay in his house and competition. He leaves you to explore the luxuries his house provides whilst you play your game. He listens. Biggie listens to every conversation in his house and listens twice as much during diary room sessions. He never tells you what to do but instead prods you to keep talking till you arrive at a decision. Aunty may not be this mystery character. Perhaps, she is going to be. But what is sure is Aunty will be physically present in the Love Pad. Aunty will be sweet, but firm! She will test these new relationships until she’s convinced that what they have is a love that will stand the test of time. Just like Biggie, she will be always present and always watching, but unlike the former, her job will be to help the contestants find their perfect partner and provide them with counsel where necessary. Aunty will keep the contestants, referred to as ‘love guests’, grounded. She will also establish and manage a very rigid daily schedule that will keep them occupied and help groom their new-found love. DStv and GOtv viewers across Africa will see Aunty in her elements when the show premieres today. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .