Abu Babes of Ibeju Lekki at the weekend won the maiden JOF U13 Football Cup Tournament played at the Campos Mini Stadium in Ajele, Lagos Island. At the competition, a grassroots initiative organised by the Lagos State Grassroots Soccer Association, ABU Babes defeated AZ Zola of Ijegun 5-3 in an entertaining final to the delight of spectators. Earlier, Aguda United of Aguda had beaten Zamak Babs of Dopemu 4-3 on penalties in the third place match. The encounter had ended 1-1 in regulation time. For their efforts, ABU Babes won a trophy and a cash prize of N200,000, while AZ Zola got a trophy and N150,000, as Aguda United also received a trophy and N50,000. In the individual awards, AZ Zola’s Akinwunmi Samad won the highest goal scorer honour with nine goals, while the most valuable player was won by ABU Babes’ Boluwatife Thompson, as the best goalkeeper went to Aguda United’s Rilwan Yusuf, and the best behaved team won by Aguda United. Speaking on the occasion, the Managing Director/CEO of JOF Nigeria Limited, Dr. Segun Olugboyegun, expressed gladness to be part of the supports that put smiles on the faces of the kids who were given the platform to showcase their talent. “I am super excited and grateful to God for the privilege to be able to sponsor the event. When I was at their ages, I also played football and I know that talent is usually discovered at this young age. “I am glad we’ve made some young people very happy, and by this competition we’ve encouraged a lot of young people to push forward their talent. And I believe that talents discovered at this age should be helped and supported educational wise,” he said, adding that other plans are in the offing to make it better next term. “The next edition will be better organised and we are already looking at how we are going to upgrade the entire competition and everything that is involved in the sport to make it much better and the plan for it is huge,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .