Daria and Ivan – DailyMail UK In a shocking twist to the story of the pregnant 13-year-old girl in Russia that claimed a 10-year-old boy was the father of her unborn child, it has been discovered that the real dad is a 15-year-old boy. The 15-year-old boy identified as Stepan as been placed on house arrest following suspicion that he is the real father of the unborn child of a 13-year-old schoolgirl who had weeks ago claimed have been impregnated by a 10-year-old boy. The girl, Darya and the ten-year-old had appeared on a television talk show last month on which she insisted that only Ivan could have made her pregnant. The age of consent in Russia is 16. Now, Russia’s biggest daily newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda has reported that a 15-year-old boy is suspected of being the father after Russian police became involved in the worrying case. Darya’s family has made a statement to police involving the older boy, said the pro-Kremlin newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda, citing its own sources. Daria and Ivan | Image: Daily Mail UK When the Darya and Ivan appeared on the talk show, they gave details on their relationship. According to the children, they met each other a year ago and fell in love at first sight. Daria, who was eight weeks pregnant at that time said: “A friend of mine introduced us and two days later we started dating. Ivan said he was in love with me. We tried to spend as much time together as we could. We like walking down the streets holding hands and kissing.” A doctor who examined Ivan said he was too sexually immature to have fathered a child. Dr Evgeny Grekov, a urology and andrology expert, says Ivan could not be the father. “We rechecked the laboratory results three times so there cannot be any mistake. There cannot be sperm cells. He is still a child. There is even no testosterone. And just to add, he still has childish sex organs. Puberty has not started. So we have a lot of questions.” Since the case broke, the girl – now 14 – has appeared on TikTok, and has gone on to become a wannabe “influencer” on Instagram, where she has secured 89,000 followers. She tagged her posts with the words “Pregnant at 13”.