The tribunal set up by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria has arraigned a Kano-based doctor, Dr. Shehu Abdullahi Muhammad, for his role in the death of one Mrs. Maijidda Aminu. Dr. Muhammad was arraigned on a five-count charge of gross negligence and incompetency in the management of medical condition of the deceased patient contrary to the code of medical practice. The investigative panel set up by the council said the respondent failed to attend to the deceased promptly when she started bleeding after delivery on the 21 April 2008. It added that the accused “failed to do all that was reasonable and ought to had been done under the circumstance for her good until she died.” The doctor, who had been on suspension since 2015, however, pleaded not guilty to all the charges.During cross examination, the respondent who works with the Muhammad Abdullahi Wase Specialist Hospital, Kano, told the tribunal that the deceased did not bled abnormally and was promptly attended to. The Guardian learnt that the case had been before the Kano State High Court where the accused was found guilty. However, the Court of Appeal in Kaduna acquitted the doctor and suggested that the case is brought before the medical council for proper trial. The respondent is one of over 15 doctors brought before the fourth session of the disciplinary tribunal for alleged gross professional incompetence, which led directly or indirectly to the death of patients under their care.On Tuesday, the tribunal sentenced two Abuja-based Doctors, Mr. Ikeji Nwabueze and Mr. Terhemba Lan to a six-months suspension from medical practice due to negligence that led to death of patients under their care. Also, the tribunal after its four-day sitting on Thursday, adjourned the hearing of the charges against three doctors arraigned for their alleged roles in the death of three-month-old, Peace Oluwole.The doctors, Iyoha Joseph, Obafemi Kuye and Oyewunmi Oladipo, were alleged to have administered unnecessary drugs to the baby and delayed necessary action, which eventually led to the baby’s death. The baby was admitted to the R. Jolad Hospital in Gbagada, Lagos State, in March 2013, where the three doctors work. Judgements on the cases were reserved until the next sitting of the tribunal, which the date is yet to be determined. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .