• Experts Call For Whistle Blower Law
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has declared that corruption in Nigeria has become cancerous, just as experts have called on the Federal Government to put in place a whistle blower law. EFCC Chairman, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, spoke in Calabar, at the weekend, at a workshop organised by African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) and sponsored by MacAthur Foundation. Magu, represented by the EFCC Head Public Affairs, Uyo office, Theresa Nwosu, said: “Corruption in Nigeria has defied every antidote and is spreading very fast, even in churches. It is spreading like cancer.
Corruption is now the proverbial cat with nine lives. We are doing vigorous sensitisation to achieve prevention… “ He said the fight against corruption is everyone’s fight. The Coordinator, AFRICMIL, Dr. Chidi Onumah, said: “There is a national policy on whistle blowing, but that is not enough. What we want is to transform that policy into law. If we have a law in place, we can take care of many things.” He said the role of whistle blower is very important and with a law, many people will be willing to divulge information, because they are protected. Representative of Independent Corrupt Practices And Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Mr. Lawrence Abuo, said the ICPC Act of 2000 has provision for whistle blowing, but a broad and general law was necessary to protect the whistle blower to enable all agencies fight corruption effectively Abuo, who represented the Chairman of ICPC, said last year, ICPC recovered well over N12bn through whistle blowers’ information in cash and asset. “ICPC guided by the Act will not make noise on a case that investigation has not been concluded, and once money is recovered, it goes into the Federation Account, “ he said. A Director of National Orientation Agency (NOA) in the state, Ms. Florence Osang blamed corruption on declining family values.
The Director in AFRICMIL, Abdulaziz Abdulaziz called for a change of attitude, saying: “ We need to do more at state levels. We need to put in place strong mechanisms to fight corruption, as it is at the federal level…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .