Ilechukwu Heartland Football Club Coach, ‎Fidelis Ilechukwu, has expressed emotion over today’s match, as his team meet MFM FC, where he spent 13 years, before seeking greener pastures. The fixture, a match day 22 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL), is slated for the Temple Stadium in Agege, and it will be a sort of home-coming for Coach Ilechukwu, who is now with the Okigwe-based club in Imo State. The Naze Millionaires of Imo State are currently eighth on the log of the NPFL, after amassing 28 points from 20 fixtures, winning eight matches, drew four and losing eight, while the Olukoya Boys are occupying 12th position of the league, having won seven games, drew five, lost eight and are on 26 points. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Ilechukwu stated that he hasn’t come to revenge the loss his current team suffered against his former club in his first game with the Heartland in the match day one of the NPFL. “I haven’t come for any revenge match against the home loss we suffered at the Okigwe Township Stadium in tomorrow’s fixture against MFM, because in football there is no revenge mindset. “In tomorrow’s game, three things will happen. It’s either we win, or we draw. And another one is we lose. But definitely, it is going to be an emotional game, having worked with them for 13 years,” he said, adding that his team would be ready for the clash today. “We’ve done what we needed to do very well in terms of preparation and we will do our best to achieve a good result by the God’s grace. It’s a game I am not going to carry on my head because it’s going to be like a training session. But we will definitely do our best to win the game. And if otherwise, it will still be fine with me,” he stated. In the other fixtures today, the two top contenders for the title race, Lobi Stars will host Plateau United at the Aper Aku Stadium Makurdi, while Rivers United will welcome Kano Pillars at the Yakubu Gowon Stadium, as Nasarawa United will also host eight time champions, Enyimba International at Lafia. Adamawa United will host FC Ifeanyi Ubah, while Jigawa Golden Stars will take on Wikki Tourists at home, as Akwa United have a date with Warri Wolves at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium Uyo.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .