 Red House celebrating their victory at the Beehive Inter-House Sports competition… on Thursday.  In a colorful ceremony witnessed by parents and guardians, Red House won 13 gold, 14 silver, and five bronze to come first, while Yellow House came second with 11 gold, three silver, and 12 bronze medals. Green House settled for the third position after garnering seven gold, six silver, and nine bronze medals, while Blue House finished fourth with four gold, 12 silver, and nine bronze medals. In the march past, Red House also came out tops, Blue House finished in the second position, Yellow House placed third and Green House settled for the fourth position. Speaking at the yearly event, the Chairperson, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Jaiyesimi, said the gathering was an occasion for the students to love and celebrate one another. “This occasion teaches the students the ability to love one another regardless of tribes. The event is also to encourage the children to go into sports so that they can begin to tap into sports for talent discovery that can be of benefit to them in the nearest future. “This is also a good time for parents to network and to celebrate ourselves. In Nigeria, we’ve seen how sports have helped some of our youths and I believe if we can start to encourage these young ones from the nursery, the better for them because sports goes beyond the fun of it,” she said. According to the Parents/Teachers Association Chairperson, Mrs. Yvonne Jobi-Fele, “We should know that sports competition is also an important part of our education because it builds destiny and checkmate the mental alertness of the children.” The School Administrator, Mrs. Boyede Adebanjo, said: “At Beehive School, we focus on training the whole child and that includes making sure our children are up to par in academics, sports and extracurricular activities. “Today, we celebrate the team spirit as well as a healthy competitive spirit with our students taking part in various sporting activities and it is just a day of joy for everybody.  At Beehive we focus on every part of the child growing up well. It is important for the child to be healthy, to be sporty, to work in teams, and to want to win,” she stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .