 Abiola Ajimobi  Unless the leadership of the Southwest zone of ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) handles the ongoing search for the deputy national chairman position that was recently vacated by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo with caution, the party stands the risk of running into a ditch capable of affecting it ahead of the 2023 presidential election.
 
While the Oyo State chapter has resolved to appeal to Ekiti chapter to concede the slot to it (Oyo) based on Southwest leaders and elders’ recent proposal, nearly all the stakeholders in Ekiti rebuffed the appeal, saying, “There is no room for sentiment in politics and neither does the party’s constitution give room for such.”
 
Chairman Oyo State chapter, Chief Akin Oke, has appealed to Ekiti State chapter for understanding over the controversy surrounding the decision of the Southwest leaders to move the slot to Oyo and possibly concede it to the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Abiola Ajimobi. Oke also blasted those condemning the decision to give the position to Ajimobi, saying they are not genuine and committed members of Oyo APC. 
 
But in a swift reaction, the State Publicity Secretary of Ekiti APC, Mr. Ade Ajayi, said though Oke has the right to plead “but any appeal now is a waste of time.”  The logjam
AS the week runs, there seems to be no end in sight to the logjam in Southwest APC over search for Adebayo’s replacement. And the leaders and elders body appear to be confused; there’s palpable feeling that they had approached the matter wrongly. Oyo State chapter, which the elders are trying to favour, is confused as some of its members are saying they don’t want “as long as Ajimobi is the preferred” candidate while Ekiti chapter is adamant, vowing that nobody could trample on their right. They noted also that the era when the supreme arbiter of the Southwest zonal party ends somewhere in Lagos, with a warning that “we are now at the national level.” 
 
There are, however, strong indications that Fayemi might shift ground and appeal to his people. The Guardian reliably gathered that the governor is in a fix at present over the matter, as he does not want to offend his people. At the same time, he doesn’t want to been seen as going against the decision of the Southwest leaders. However, Publicity Secretary of Southwest APC, Mr. Dapo Karounwi, also dismissed Oke’s plea and was quick to remind Oyo State APC chairman that even his members had come out to say they don’t want Ajimobi or the slot. “A statement was issued in this regard by one of the active members of Oyo APC,” Karounwi said. “What is Oke therefore pleading for that the party should go against its constitution or decision of the national convention?”
 
Karounwi also lampooned those sharing the sentiment that Oyo needs to have a senior representative in the NWC and National Executive Council (NEC) since it has no serving governor at present. Karounwi disclosed to The Guardian that Senator Aluko’s name had already been forwarded to Southwest APC caucus, NWC, NEC, the presidency, and the leadership of the party at National Assembly. If there is going to be changes, it is either the party calls for an emergency national convention or they wait till June, when the party will hold its mini-national convention.”
 
He said any arrangements outside this could not be done by any set of leaders or elders “because we are not in an animal kingdom. APC has a constitution.” He further put a lie to the sentiment that Oyo has no representative in NWC, stressing, “As we speak, Oyo State has the Deputy National Youth Leader, Hafiz Bolaji Repete. Now, if the deputy national chairman is retrieved and given to Oyo, the state would now have two national officers while Ekiti would be left with none.”
 
Way out 
GOING by the dicey situation, it is now imperative of the national leadership of APC to intervene by summoning the parties involved to appeal whether Ekiti or Oyo chapter would rescind their positions. Failing which, Ajimobi and Aluko should also be invited, with one prevailed upon to step down. But if the two arrangements fail, the party may have no choice than to summon an emergency national convention to vote for either of the two contenders – Ajomobi and Aluko.
 
Karounwi vowed that any option outside this or if the national leadership believes it can foist any candidate “such decision would be tested in the court.”  In the long run, Ajimobi stands a better chance if at the end the issue is put to vote in Southwest. The calculation that will favour the immediate past governor of Oyo State is Lagos, Ogun and Oyo, Osun axis will vote in one direction against Ekiti’s while Ondo might chose to remain neutral of perhaps follow the majority. Even at the national level, Fayemi may find it difficult if not impossible to antagonize Ajimobi, a two-term governor and senator. Those proven adamant over the matter, especially from Ekiti might eventually end as ‘political causalities.’ Meanwhile, incumbent Deputy National Youth Leader has issued a statement in support of Ajimobi and he has allegedly expressed readiness to rescind his current position peradventure the deputy national chairman is conceded to Oyo. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .