To give Nigerian athletes the technical boost they need to excel at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, Technical Director of Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN), Brown Ebewele wants former 100m hurdles champion, Gloria Alozie, to be invited to the national camp. Alozie remains one of the greatest athletes to emerge from Africa. Before switching nationality to Spain in 2001, she grabbed a silver medal in the 100m hurdles for Team Nigeria at Sydney 2000 Olympics Games, losing the gold medal narrowly to Olga Shishigina of Kazakhstan. The national and African record of 12.44 seconds Alozie set in the 100m hurdles is still unbroken about two decades after. Ebewele, a former Commissioner for Sports in Edo State insisted Alozie should be in the national camp to assist the athletes technically. Ebewele is of the view that Alozie’s wealth of experience could add more value to Nigerian hurdlers in their preparation for the Olympics. Alozie is a coach with the Making of Champions (MoC). “I say this with total convention that Alozie has all it takes to do well and accepted by all athletes in camp,” Ebewele said at the end of the All-Comers competition in Akure. He also noted that AFN had in the past neglected former worthy national champions for lesser experienced ones, who according to him, had brought athletics in Nigeria to its knees. “How could anyone in his right senses neglect a heroine and champions in her event for a rookie that had nothing to offer athletes in camp? This is an Olympic year, therefore, all hands must be harnessed to achieve the desired goal,” Ebewele said. On the All-Comers meet at the weekend in Akure, the AFN Technical Director said that turn out of athletes was impressive, adding that they enjoyed the first competition of the year. Ebewele further stated that as head of the technical committee, he would ensure that justice prevailed in technical decisions that would affect all athletes and coaches. “I will ensure that athletes receive all they aspire for, but they must work harder to earn their places,” Ebewele stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .