 Electricity grid.  MAN President, Mansur Ahmed, at the yearly media luncheon, advised the Federal Government to concentrate on developing processes and policies to address the nation’s power needs.He said: “It is also important for government to ensure adequate and appropriate consultations with stakeholders in the private sector on such decisions with far-reaching implications.
 
“Similar to this, is the uneven pricing of this commodity across DisCos, which if not corrected, will lead to uneven development in certain parts of Nigeria, as the percentage increase in tariff differs. A reduction in electricity tariff for industrial purpose is more ideal, but even if it cannot be reduced, it should be not be increased; any increase on the tariff will reinforce the already high cost manufacturing environment and further depress productivity in the sector.”
  
He noted that 2019 was quite eventful for manufacturers owing to the dire need for engagement with the government on policy decisions with the potential of having far-reaching impact on the manufacturing sector.  PAMA main objective is bringing African manufacturers together to jointly engage governments on the continent to create a conducive and enabling environment for local businesses to thrive as we anticipate the take-off of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) from July.
  
“For the gains of AfCFTA to be realised, government must show readiness in addressing the supply side constraints relating to lack of infrastructure; and policies and regulations not being too harsh for businesses to operate. Rather, regulations should be seen as a way of assisting businesses to grow, which ultimately enhance competitiveness and boost the economies,” he said.He pointed out that the Association remains at the forefront of setting the pace for engagement with other African manufacturers, urging the Nigerian government to lead by example in ensuring that policies are industry-friendly, as this is the only guarantee for a competitive intra-African trade.  “Transportation alone is vital to enhancing competitiveness in trade. For instance, due to poor infrastructure, it will cost a business owner in Nigeria more to transport goods from Lagos to Kano than it will cost a Chinese business owner to transport the same goods from China to Lagos,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .