The Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN) has advocated early detection of breast and cervical cancers, noting that women above 30 years of age were predisposed to the scourge. President of the Edo chapter of the association, Dr. Adesuwa Urhoghide-Edigin, who gave the advice yesterday during a free screening and awareness programme in Benin City, pointed out that “cervical cancer is a malignant tumour of the cervix and the lowermost part of the uterus.”She went on: “When cervical cancer starts in the cervix, it is called cervical cancer. The cervix is the lower and narrow end of the uterus that connects the vagina to the upper part of the uterus. “Cervical cancer is the easiest gynecologic cancer to prevent with regular screening tests and follow up.“A PAP smear test is a test to detect if a woman has cervical cancer. Women go for a PAP smear regularly in order to avoid cervical cancer.” According to her, “MWAN Edo is committed to ensuring improvement in the standard of healthcare and we say no to cervical cancer and breast cancer in our society.” Explaining the rise in cancer cases nationwide, Urhoghide-Edigin advocated that sensitisation on regular checks should be encouraged, adding that her association would visit 18 local councils in the state to create awareness about the disease and how it could be prevented. On her part, a gynaecologist, Dr. Anthonia Njoku, who spoke on cervical cancer, advised women to go for PAP smear test once in a year for early detection.She observed: “All women are at risk for cervical cancer. It occurs most often in women over age 30. “Each year, more than 8000 women die from it in Nigeria. It kills one woman in Nigeria every 10 minutes.”Njoku said human papillomavirus (HPV) was the main cause of cervical cancer, as it is passed from one person to another during sex. The Executive Chairman of Oredo Local Council, Evbareke Osunde, lauded MWAN for organising the event.This is even as the association cautioned against the circumcision of the girl-child owing to its health hazards.It gave the warning during enlightenment on Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in Benin City.Explaining what female genital mutilation was all about, Urhoghide-Edigin warned that the cutting of the female genitals and removal of some or all of the external female genitalia could cause life-lasting physical and psychological trauma to the victims. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .