Lawmakers who paid tributes to the late Senator Longjan Ignatius Datong at the National Assembly yesterday expressed concerns over the constant deaths in both chambers. At the valedictory session for the late lawmaker who represented Plateau South Senatorial District before his demise, they lamented the death of good people, while the wicked live on. It was time for the home truth, as the senators challenged themselves on the need to live good lives and deliver dividends of democracy to their people so that when they pass on they would be remembered for good. The late Dantong died on February 10, 2020, after a brief illness. Minority Leader Enyinnaya Abaribe, while paying tributes to the deceased, asked why good people die and the wicked people don’t die. “Those of us from the South East, say, “Death doesn’t know how to make choices on those that he wants to take otherwise he wouldn’t a nice, humble, unassuming person like Longjan. On his part, Gabriel Suswam, who asked the Senate President to lead prayers, said, “We need serious prayers in this chamber. The two major religions should pray that the Almighty God does not continue to take the good people away. Let Him be taking the bad ones as well.” Speaking, Ibikunle Amosun pointed out that between 2003 and 2007 there were sad incidences twice until they had the accident in which three of their colleagues died. “Between that time and now, 21 of us have died. That tells us how ephemeral life is. We pray that we do not keep experiencing things like this.” Also, Deputy Minority Leader, Emmanuel Bwacha (Taraba South) said good men are not many in society today, adding, “In answer to Abaribe’s question, the good ones are going because God is a patient God. “He allows the time so they can repent. God will take the good people who are prepared to go so that they don’t dissolve into the multitude. So, for those of us who are still alive, we have a lesson to learn to perfect our ways with God and for believers to remember Thessalonians 4:13-18.” For a representative of Ekiti Central, Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, it was another reminder of the inevitability of death, adding, “It is also for us to put in our best in the service of our fatherland and humanity because of a time like this.” Oluremi Tinubu expressed concern over the many deaths of their colleagues within a short interval saying it was not long Uwajumogu was buried and now Datong, while Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege said it was one death too many. Meanwhile, Senate President, Ahmad Lawan said, “This is a lesson to the rest of the country. No matter our differences, we must find common grounds.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .