Woman Walking Image Business Insider Walking is one of the best exercises for keeping fit and losing weight. However, the benefits of walking go beyond just losing weight, it encompasses a lot and below are some according to The Healthy: Happiness
Whether you are just having a down day or a down life, taking a walk can lift your mood, especially when you go outdoors, according to a study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Walking helps to achieve better emotional health and a more robust social life. Next time you have an emotional breakdown, take a walk. Boosts Creativity
Trying to get creative, take a walk. Whether you need a solution to a problem at work or you are looking for inspiration for your novel, walking gets your creative juices flowing in all areas. One Stanford University study by Marily Osppezzo and Daniel L. Schwartz, they found that walking can boost creative output by 60 per cent. The same results were found for both indoor and outdoor workouts, and the creative boost lasted after the walk itself. Reduces Asthma Flares You don’t need to avoid exercise if you have experienced exercise-induced asthma. You just need to find the right exercise in the right conditions. The American College of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology says walking, along with swimming, golfing and leisure biking, is less likely to irritate your airways. Also, it is advisable to look for activities you can do in warm weather. Increase lifespan
We all want to live long, to achieve this, try taking a walk often. According to Maya Clinic, walking can help increase lifespan. According to the result of the research, brisk walkers were found to have longer life expectancies. Deeper Sleep
Walking helps you to have a deeper sleep and better night rest. According to the Sleep Foundation, researchers have found that people who exercised regularly, including walking, fell asleep more quickly, slept longer, and had better quality sleep than those who did vigorous exercise or lifted weights.