Stanley Dimgba is one of the brightest stars in Enyimba’s battle for honours on two different fronts this season. The home-based Super Eagles star has been excellent for the Peoples Elephant in both the CAF Confederation Cup and the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL). Last week, the left footed star, who can play in either wings, as well as from the middle, opened scores as Enyimba defeated Wiki Tourists 3-0 at the Aba Stadium. Coming after a resounding 5-2 away defeat of San Pedro in the Confederation Cup in Abidjan, Dimgba sees everything turning around for Enyimba’s sake. He believes Enyimba now has the belief to retain their NPFL crown and also win the Confederation Cup for the first time. He said, “Definitely we must go far. You know with this momentum, I believe we will go far because we have already started scoring goals, winning matches we were not expected to win. “Initially, people did not believe in us, but I thank God that we are back now… our fans have started believing in us and we will make sure that we score goals, because goals win matches and that is our target. “I thank God for the form of the team. Not only me, the team is now blending and they are focused now and I believe in the next matches, we will conquer.” On his fantastic form, which has seen him scoring six goals in the last seven matches, Dimgba said, “The real secret of my form is working hard. “After our training, I keep going to the gym, to make sure that I keep my form because I know that I have not reached my limit, so I try to do extra training and to be focused. “That is the secret of my form and I thank God and believe that it will continue.” In the game against Wiki Tourists, Dimgba opened the scoring in the first half, before second half efforts from in-form Austin Oladapo and Victor Mbaoma crowned a worthy evening for the eight times champions. Explaining the difficulties his team had in the early part of the game, Enyimba Head Coach, Fatai Osho said, “In the first half, we started very well in the first 10 minutes. We could have gone like two goals up. But along the line we gave them a lot of space on the ball and when you do that you can only struggle, and that was exactly what happened. “We gave them a lot of space on the ball and they were so comfortable and they started making quality passes. When you do that you can only live to regret it. “We came back in the second half (and) we tried to adjust that. We denied them a lot of space and we, on our path, tried to move the ball quickly. We changed the rhythm of the game. “The pace of the game, we changed it because we knew that if we were so quick against them their backline they would struggle, and that’s exactly what happened.” Like Dimgba, Osho believes Enyimba have a lot on their armoury to retain the NPFL title. Also sure Enyimba are primed for success is one of the goal scorers, Austin Oladapo, who is one of the outstanding stars in the team’s quest for glory. He explains, “Our confidence is very high, winning from one game to the other. “From the very first time we won in Abidjan, our confidence has been going high. “We came to Lagos and we won and also defeated Abia Warriors. “Even in game against Wikki Tourists, we adjusted quickly when things were not going smoothly in the first half. We still believed we would win. “Our confidence is now so high that we can take any opposition no matter their pedigree.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .