• Restates commitment to development of state, betterment of citizens Governor Nyesom Wike has hinted that only a prepared and determined person would succeed him as Rivers State chief executive at the 2023 general elections. The disclosure comes as youths encouraged him to seek higher office at the next poll. Addressing the leadership of One Million Youths for New Rivers State at the Government House, Port Harcourt yesterday, Wike insisted that only a prepared person would be allowed to emerge the next governor of the state. He added that only the person with the capacity to lead that would win the gubernatorial seat in 2023. The governor explained that his primary preoccupation was the development of the state. “My commitment is to Rivers. My focus is on whatever will make Rivers to be a leader among the comity of states.  We are working to have a positive impact on the lives of the people of Rivers State. To make sure that we protect the interest of Rivers State,” he stated. Wike pointed out that his commitment to the state was beyond political consideration, adding,  “no party is above the interest of Rivers State.” “Any party without the interest of Rivers State will not have any connection with me. That does not mean that I do not have the interest of my party (at heart), but Rivers State is paramount,” he clarified. The Rivers helmsman assured the youths that a bulk of them would be captured in the next set of appointments by his administration, urging their loyalty. “Loyalty by the stomach is not full loyalty.  I urge you to remain faithful to the state. Do not allow busy body politicians to make you do what you are not supposed to do,” he counselled. Wike appreciated his visitors for their contribution towards his re-election. The group’s coordinator and Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Ehie Edison, deplored the attack on the Abuja home of Dr. Peter Odili by political thugs, clarifying that the vision of his organisation goes beyond elections to include empowering the youths. His words: “The vision of One Million Youths for New Rivers State is beyond elections, it is centred around improving the leadership skills of Rivers youths from secondary schools and tertiary institutions.” “In practical demonstration, we immediately launched a two million naira youth empowerment scheme for 10 youths from two separate local government areas at N200,000 per person solely for small-scale businesses.” Edison revealed that the group had created an education and health department to cater to the needs of registered members, urging the governor to support them financially to empower more youths across the 23 council areas of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .