 [FILES] FCT Road Traffic Service, has disclosed that it realised over N3.5billion from Internally Generated Revenues (IGR). Photo: PIXABAY  It said the performance is about N500million above the N2.9billion revenue target set by the FCT administration. It however assured that it has put in place all necessary machinery to ensure it generates over N4.5billion in this fiscal year. Speaking to The Guardian weekend, in Abuja, on the need for the agency to be able to generate revenues to meet its obligations, the Director, FCT Directorate of Road Traffic Services, Wadata Bodinga, said: “Time has come for us to assist the administration with revenue generation to justify the huge government investment into our agency. “We are targeting by the grace of God to push our revenue generation from the N3.5billion sin 2019 to about N4.5billion in the year 2020. This is quite important because the  FCT administration purchased about 22 Hilux patrol vehicles and 16 motorbikes to replace the old ones; these have equally added to our fleet of operational vehicles to boost our performances.” He continued, “The administration also listened to our complaints of personnel shortage; and as I speak with you, over 200 staff have been recruited for us, this has increased our staff strength to about 900. The administration similarly supported us financially to upgrade our equipment to do the job. You will agree with me that it is the very reason we’re expected to be able to generate sufficient funds to reciprocate the gesture.” He explained that the Directorate is holding collaborative talks with the private sector to come into the FCT to support the government’s transportation system. He said further: “We are trying to remove all the encumbrances that have hindered an effective transportation system in Abuja. Presently, the administration has been able to ban Keke-NAPEP and Okada from plying major roads in the city centres. The move has helped in reducing the level of accidents on the roads; it has equally reduced the chaotic traffic congestion in the city, while also reducing the man-hours lost.” He regretted that the Abuja Urban Mass Transit Company (UMCO), is the only one engaged in mass transportation in the nation’s capital. He added: “Now that we’ve been able to open up and improve the enabling environment, the FCT transportation system is now calling on well-meaning Nigerians, who are into mass transportation businesses to come into Abuja, to invest in the sector.” He said the government is already collaborating with some transport companies to take advantage of the opportunity, noting that “once we get this right, we stand to further raise our IGR and put the FCT transport system in the front burner.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .