ATLANTA, GA – DECEMBER 03: Nicki Minaj and Meek Mill attend Meek Mills album Release Party at Gold Room on December 3, 2016 in Atlanta, Georgia. (Photo by Prince Williams/WireImage) There is the popular saying that “there is no smoke without fire” but another old saying also goes, “Where there was fire, ashes remain.” Rappers Nicki Minaj and Meek Mill seemed to pull out receipts from their failed relationship as they went hard on each other on social media. The feud started when 32-year-old Mill liked an Instagram post which poked fun at Nicki’s husband Kenneth Petty’s dress sense, and the Anaconda star responded by accusing her ex, who she dated between 2015 and 2017, of beating women. Displeased, Minaj fired back by posting a photo of Mill on his phone and wrote: “Trigger fingers turn to #TwitterFingers bad built face a– obsessed with the Queen.” She followed that by writing that Mill has been “tweeting bout my man for a year now. Talking bout he went to my page to see him but was blocked […] Move on.” She went on to reference a video clip from a recent encounter in Los Angeles, California where Minaj and Petty were seen in a shouting match with Mill outside a store. Minaj then threw dirt on Mill when she accused him of domestic violence as she alleged that he beats women. 37-year-old Minaj took to Instagram to call Meek a “clown” and also wrote, “#TwitterFingers beat women, scared of men.”  Not done dragging Mill, she took to Twitter where she was more specific with her accusations of domestic violence. She wrote: “You beat your own sister and taped it. Spit on her & taped it. Kicked me in front of your mother and sent her to the hospital,” Nicki wrote. “Sucking drake d–k made u feel tough again. Move on.” On his part, Mill responded to Minaj by saying she is only trying to end his career by alleging he beats women but she on her part is the one who supports a rapist. Minaj’s older brother was in January convicted of predatory sexual assault. He was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison after he was found guilty of raping an 11-year-old girl at his Long Island, New York, home in November 2017. Mill tweeted: “The only way you can try to kill my career is to say I beat women … talk about ya brother convicted of rape and you been knew and paid for his lawyer … ya little brother touched that lil girl too! You know I know … you want me to crash with ya boyfriend and I won’t.” Minaj reacted to the claims about her older brother by tweeting: “Imagine talking about an alleged rape of a child to hurt someone who wasn’t involved just so ppl can dislike me. You can never stand on your own. You won’t tell ppl the mother is on tape asking me for $20 million to make the charge go away tho. U was around. U know. See u soon.” Fans at this point waded in as they disagreed with the “Queen” rapper on her choice of words. She was reminded that her brother is not an alleged rapist but a convicted one and that she recenty called him her hero in a handwritten letter. Following this, Minaj went silent on the feud but Meek continued to tweet on the matter. “You sad you willing to crash your man because you losing now and everybody in the industry know you a bad person! You been knew your brother was raping that little girl that’s why I got away from you!,” Meek wrote after Nicki’s most recent tweet. The “Going Bad” rapper said that Minaj “picked a great time” to accuse him of domestic violence. He continued, “You full of hate and the whole industry know you full of hate… and ya bag getting low so you wanna destroy me.” “For clarification I don’t hit women and I won’t let my interviews be filled with question about her or any situation to do with her when I come out to do press for my new album! No devils tricks”.” Meek also tweeted that he can’t believe “industry people let these people survive this long in the game knowing they really nasty people and have a nasty upbringing,” referring to Nicki. He added, “Everybody really know what’s going on! I’m powerful I’m never scared to speak up!” Lastly, Meek wanted to set the record straight that he doesn’t “hit women” and “won’t let my interviews be filled with questions about her or any situation to do with her when I come out to do press for my new album! No devils tricks.” Before he sent his last tweet, Meek also confirmed in a now-deleted tweet that his partner is “pregnant watching me tweet about my ex is very clownish… Imma exit.”