 Paris Saint-Germain’s French forward Kylian Mbappe (R) is congratulated by Paris Saint-Germain’s Brazilian forward Neymar after scoring a goal during the French L1 football match between Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Montpellier Herault SC at the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris, on February 1, 2020. (Photo by MARTIN BUREAU / AFP)  Neymar, with his hair dyed pink, shook off an injury scare and raged with the match officials while Pablo Sarabia, Angel Di Maria, Kylian Mbappe and Layvin Kurzawa all scored along with a Daniel Congre own goal as PSG went 13 points clear of Marseille at the top of the table. On Sunday, the Brazilian is set to host a lavish party for his 28th birthday at a Parisian nightclub, despite his team playing again on Tuesday against Nantes. “It’s a distraction, that’s clear,” said Tuchel. “I always want to protect my players, and if there are difficult things to talk about I prefer to say them internally. “These are distractions, and they give the impression we are not serious, not professional. But I don’t really want to talk about it because then these things become big issues.” Paris Saint-Germain’s Brazilian forward Neymar (L) jokes with Paris Saint-Germain’s French forward Kylian MBappe prior to the French L1 football match between Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Montpellier Herault SC at the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris, on February 1, 2020. (Photo by FRANCK FIFE / AFP)  While Neymar didn’t score, having to settle just for one assist, he produced his usual tricks, provoked the opposition, and required lengthy treatment at the end of the first half after appearing to hurt his ribs as he grappled for the ball with Montpellier’s Arnaud Souquet. Unhappy with some of the treatment reserved for him, Neymar was booked for dissent in the first half and was then caught by television cameras angrily remonstrating in Portuguese with the fourth official in the tunnel at half-time. – Mbappe anger at substitution –
Tuchel was also forced to answer questions about Mbappe’s angry reaction to being taken off midway through the second half, as Edinson Cavani came on for a first appearance since a January move to Atletico Madrid fell through. “It doesn’t look good, but we are not the only club where players react like that,” the coach said. “This team shows how professional and focused they are every day, but this gives the impression it’s not always like that and I’m sad because it’s not necessary. “I explained to him why he came off and that will be that. I always make decisions for sporting reasons. This is football, not tennis, and you have to respect everyone.” Sarabia was selected ahead of Mauro Icardi and Cavani to start with Mbappe up front, and the former Real Madrid player curled home a fine opener from 22 yards in the eighth minute for his 10th goal of the season. Paris Saint-Germain’s French forward Kylian MBappe (L) is congratuled by Paris Saint-Germain’s Brazilian forward Neymar after scoring a goal during the French L1 football match between Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Montpellier Herault SC at the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris, on February 1, 2020. (Photo by FRANCK FIFE / AFP)  On came young debutant goalkeeper Matis Carvalho and he had to pick the ball out of his net twice before the interval. Di Maria lifted the ball over him and in to make it 2-0 in the 41st minute, and shortly afterward Teji Savanier’s attempt to clear a Di Maria corner rebounded off the face of defender Congre and in. After Neymar cooled down at the break, he set up Mbappe to round Carvalho and score his 14th league goal of the season. Kurzawa drilled in the fifth in the 65th minute, and the visitors were reduced to nine men late on as substitute Joris Chotard saw two quick yellow cards. Marseille go to Bordeaux on Sunday looking for a first win there in 43 years, while Rennes strengthened their grip on third by scoring twice in injury time to claim a 3-2 win over Nantes on Friday. Elsewhere on Saturday, Monaco’s problems continued as they had two men sent off in the first half and lost 3-1 at Nimes. They remain 13th. Victor Osimhen’s late penalty gave Lille a 2-1 victory at Strasbourg to leave them fourth.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .