Layer3, a leading IT services provider, is marking its fifteenth year of operations in Nigeria’s technology space. Launched in 2005, Layer3 provides technology solutions ranging from network and security solutions, to cloud and access solutions and boasts of some of the most demanding global and national organizations in the private and public sectors. Speaking on the company’s anniversary, Oyaje Idoko, CEO of Layer3, said that the occasion was an opportunity to reflect on its growth over the past decade-and-half.  “For 15 years, we have supported organizations with the technologies they need to scale and thrive,” he said. “Each year, we remind ourselves of how far we have come on this journey.” Mr. Idoko noted that the company’s work was driven by a mission to make organizations and individuals excel through technology. According to him, this was evidenced by the accomplishments its customers had recorded while working with Layer3. “The work we do is meaningful and transformative,” he said. “There is evidence of this in the wins that our solutions have helped our clients achieve. We want the coming years to yield even greater successes for them, and for us.” He also thanked all Layerons, both past and present, as well as its clients and partners, for the roles they have played in the company’s progress thus far. In his remarks, Shatse Kakwagh, Executive Director at Layer3, expressed his belief in the company as a positive force in Nigeria’s organizational landscape.  “Through sheer hard work and dedication to our vision, we are enabling the success of numerous businesses,” Mr. Kakwagh explained. “The technologies we provide to them have spurred growth across this country.” As one of Nigeria’s leading IT services firms, Layer3’s services are enjoyed by organizations in various parts of the country and in other African countries. Her impact is also being felt through her Corporate Social responsibility projects and interventions especially in the education, health, and start-up innovation ecosystem. For instance, Layer3 has continually supported NCDC, allowing the agency to strengthen its communications and response capacities, as it tackles the COVID-19 pandemic. Layer3 was recognized as one of the London Stock Exchange’s Companies to Inspire Africa in 2019. It has also been named one of the top five IT companies to work for by Jobberman and has won the Beacon of ICT Awards for Best Cloud Service provider in Nigeria, as well as the back-to-back awards for the best Customer Service in IT awards, amongst many other awards.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .