• Olafeso promises to work with winner on condition
• Ajayi’s bid to be running mate allegedly suffers setback A former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Ondo State, Eyitayo Jegede, has emerged winner of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election in the state. Jegede, who polled 888 votes to beat his closest rival, the embattled deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi (657 votes), will fly the party’s flag in the October 10, 2020 gubernatorial election. However, contrary to insinuations, a former Vice Chairman of the PDP, South-West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, has decided to work for the victory of the party in the upcoming governorship election. Olafeso, who emerged third in the governorship primary election, told journalists yesterday in Akure that he would accept the result in good fate. He, however, posited that the winner of the poll and PDP candidate in the 2016 governorship election, Jegede, must solicit his support formally and informally. He hinged his support on the readiness of Jegede to encapsulate his programmes for sustainable economic recovery, massive employment, infrastructural development, among others. Jegede, while giving his acceptance speech immediately the chairman of the primary election committee and Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, declared him winner, described the result as victory for all. He said that his victory was a quit notice to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who is also seeking a second term. According to him: “By the support of the people of the state and other party members, we will take over government of Ondo State, come October 2020. “We are all winners in Ondo State and I dedicate this victory to the people of Ondo and to my co-aspirants.” Meanwhile, it was gathered that Jegede had kicked against moves by the deputy governor and second runner-up, Ajayi, to become his running mate. Jegede was said to have rejected this outrightly on the ground that he would not like to have a deputy governor that would not give him a rest of mind. The source said: “Some PDP national leaders, including a governor from the North-West, had been talking to  Jegede on the need to pick Ajayi as his running mate. “They emphasised that the national leadership of the party does not want a situation whereby Ajayi, who defected as a sitting deputy governor, would feel neglected after the primary. “They also stressed that apart from the fact that Ajayi is a grassroots mobiliser, Jegede needs a running mate that can match whoever is picked by the APC as Akeredolu’s running mate from the Southern Senatorial District. “Jegede also told them that he was ready to concede the PDP southern senatorial ticket to Agboola in 2023 general election.”if he works for the victory of PDP in the October 10, 2020 governorship election.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .