As reactions continue to trail Federal Government’s decision to re-open schools for students in final year classes, proprietor of the Netherlands International Schools, Nehemiah Obuorah, has cautioned against mass infections of COVID-19. Speaking against the backdrop of rising cases of the pandemic, he argued that reopening tertiary institutions populated by adolescents would test the merit and demerit of opening schools. He told The Guardian in an interview yesterday that it was better to reopen tertiary institutions than basic schools, which comprise pupils for Common Entrance examination, JSS3 and SSS3 secondary school students. “This is because reopening the universities and other higher institutions will remove the fear and stigma associated with the pandemic,” he said. Obuorah noted that the universities have the botanical and herbal gardens and trees, which could create higher oxygen in the university environment required to provide immunity for the virus. He said students in higher institutions had developed sanitisers and water dispensers, stressing that, if they were allowed to return to school, they would carry out further studies on finding drugs for prevention and cure of COVID-19. “If allowed to return to school, students in higher institutions will fumigate their environment themselves and maintain personal and environmental hygiene. They could easily go into the laboratories to research for drugs needed to contain the COVID-19 and help the economy to rebound. “Lecturers can also use the students to engage in studies and researches to develop drugs for the cure of the disease, while also bearing in mind the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU’s) strike. “By the time the tertiary institutions are reopened, the economy will open up as a lot of hospitals will also open. They will reactivate the country’s macro and micro-economies because of the multiplier effects in the economy and movement of funds,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .