Adara community in Southern Kaduna has called on the Federal Government to come to its rescue amid fresh attacks, including killings and kidnapping, by bandits. Last week, a man was reportedly killed and two women attacked on their way to their farms. President of Adara Development Association (ADA), Awemi Maisamari, stated on Wednesday that the latest attacks were in the villages around Doka, Afogo, Kallah, Gefe and Libere, all bordering Ladugga Grazing Reserve. The Guardian gathered from community leaders that Adara was still bedevilled by attacks, kidnapping and occupation of displaced communities. Maisamari said, “Our farmers are still routinely attacked and sometimes killed when they go to their farms. On July 2 and 5, 2020, two women at Doka were seriously wounded and a man named Yohanna Mutane was killed at Maraban Kajuru.” Recounting the people’s ordeal, he explained that in the last two months, one person was killed and more than 15 kidnapped for ransom. His words, “ADA is, therefore, still passionately appealing to the state and federal governments to take necessary steps to restore law, order and genuine peace in Adara land. We are also appealing for oversight by the public and international community to protect human dignity, minorities’ rights, justice and equity.” Besides, Maisamari alleged that the Governor Nasir el-Rufai administration was planning to use the report of a committee it set up to further hurt the people. “A peace building committee on Kajuru led by Yakubu Barde (representing Chikun/Kajuru in the National Assembly) submitted its report to the Governor Nasir el-Rufai mid-June 2020. “On June 30, those who were in attendance briefed other Adara elders about the measures the governor said he intended to take on the crisis. ADA has now realised that, in reality, some of the measures amount to punitive actions against Adara nation. One of them is the withdrawal of all security agents in Kajuru, if there is no peace with Fulani herdsmen,” he said. Consequently, the leaders demanded that any binding engagement with the community on their grievances should, among other conditions, include recognised representatives from Adara. ADA vowed to dissociate from any group of people, report, decision or action inconsistent with the least of the conditions. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .