 Folasade Yemi-Esan  “Undoubtedly, the work is daunting with relentless pressure from our diverse quarters, but we must all lead by example, upholding the provisions of the extant rules at all times. We must be on the side of truth and be the example we want subordinate officers to emulate,” Yemi-Esan said at the opening ceremony of a three-day induction workshop for federal permanent secretaries designates in Abuja. A statement signed by the Director of Information in the HOS Office, Olawunmi Ogunmosunle, said the workshop had in attendance the 12 permanent secretaries designates. Seasoned speakers which include past heads of service, retired permanent secretaries, chairman, Civil Service Commission and the director-general of the Budget Office of the Federation are expected to deliver papers at the even. According to the statement, permanent secretaries who are custodians of public trust need to foster mutual trust and confidence amongst themselves and other critical stakeholders of the public service to address the daunting challenges of national development. Yemi-Esan also spoke on the need to elevate the Nigerian public service to world class standard with special emphasis on digital service delivery, innovation, knowledge, value addition, revenue generation, wealth creation and electronic operations driven by ICT processes.. She revealed that the office was working on series of reforms to promote transparency and accountability by leveraging on digitalization and automation, adding that there is also established collaboration with stakeholders to develop policy and guidelines on remote working, with the aim of turning the challenges posed by COVID -19 to opportunities.. The HOS mentioned observed weaknesses in the planning research and statistics departments of all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as some of the important areas the office is working on in collaboration with the Federal Civil Service Commission with the aim of strengthening them. She said there was determined efforts to bring about rapid transformation of the public service through charted strategies and many other laudable programmes and activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .