The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has sent emissary to the former Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido to appologise on behalf of the party for some of its actions that might have undermined his integrity. It would be recalled that the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party had set up a caretaker committee after the expiration of the tenure of the former State Working Committee to coordinate the party’s affairs in the state. The Jigawa State PDP Caretaker Committee chairman, Hon. Umar Mungadi alongside other members of his committee last week, said the national headquarters of the party sent them to Lamido for two reasons. According to Mungadi, “One of the reasons is to apologise to Sule Lamido and beg for his forgiveness. Secondly, that Sule Lamido should tell them how the party should be run in the state.” The chairman said Lamido is so important and valuable to the party, explaining that it was why they had come to Lamido and not Lamido to them. “Everybody in Nigeria knows who Lamido is to the party,” he continued. “Lamido is PDP and PDP is Lamido.” Lamido, however, said he took exception to some decisions by the national headquarters of the party in Jigawa without conferring with him. Lamido, while recieving his guests, said he was not offended. He said PDP is an institution and not individual, but indicated that national party chairmen had come and gone but the PDP is still standing as a political Institution. He, however, decried a situation whereby rumours and propaganda were being peddled, yet not even the National Chairman, Uche Secondus reached out to him or any leader of the party. “All they were doing was listening to hearsay and busy taking decisions on behalf of Jigawa PDP without consulting me,” he said. He indicated that PDP leadership sent down a caretaker committee to his state without his knowledge and many other decisions were taken. “I am not bordered as I am busy having a sound sleep and rest in my house,” he noted. “They don’t need to send people to apologise to me.” It will be recalled that after constituting a caretaker committees at the 27 local government areas of the state, the state caretaker committee chairman later announced the sacking of the committees as directed by the national headquarter of the party. Mungadi said the earlier inaugurated 135 members of the local government caretaker members stood dissolved. He said the decision followed an earlier petition by a faction of PDP in the state under Aminu Ibrahim Ringim, which made the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP to rescind the appointments. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .