The drama surrounding Jada Pinkett-Smith’s affair with singer August Alsina doesn’t look like it is going away any time soon. In development to the story, rapper 50 Cent has shared messages he exchanged with Jada’s husband actor Will Smith about the fling. 50 Cent disclosed that he reached out to Will after Jada’s Facebook show, The Red Table Talk Show, aired in which she admitted to the fling with Alsina. After the show aired, 50 Cent reached out to the actor to give his support, but it ended in a furious exchange with Will. The conversation started with 50 Cent asking Smith how he is doing to which the “Bad Boys” actor replied that he is okay. Smith also thanked 50 Cent for his support to which the rapper pressed about Jada’s admission of the fling. 50 Cent wrote; “But why did she tell you that s**t on a show for everyone to see?” Will tried to explain, writing: “We broke up so she did her and I did me.” 50 Cent obviously wanted more as he pressed: “Then she said only SHE can given permission for somebody to blow her back out,” adding a confused emoji. At this point, Will lost it and ended the conversation by writing: “F**k you 50.” 50 Cent shared the exchange on Instagram and insisted that he is wondering what he did wrong. 50 Cent and Will Smith There have been rumours that Will and Jada have an open marriage and this was seemingly fueled when Alsina revealed that he had an affair with Jada. In Alsina’s June revelation, he said Will gave his blessing to the relationship. Although Jada has admitted the “entanglement” happened at a time when she and Will were going through a difficult time, she denied that Will gave his blessing. During the Red Table Talk, Will explained how August came into their lives at the time his marriage to Jada had crumbled. He said: “When Aug first came around, he was really sick. The outpouring for him from our family was initially about his health. Jada added: “We found all those different resources to help pull from there. You and I were going through difficult time.” Will explained: “I was done with you… We were gonna separate. You go figure out how to make each other happy… We could be over.”