• Group Asks Police To Prosecute Culprits The Enugu State Government has promised to take care of the10-year-old househelp, Miss Nneoma Nnadi, who was maltreated by her guardians, Mrs. Ifeoma Ozougwu and her husband, Mr. Jude Ozougwu. The government also promised to offset her medical bills and ensure she receives adequate medical attention. It was reported that the couple, who resides at Thinkers Corner, Enugu,  but from Aku in Igbo-Etiti Local Council, inflicted various degrees of injuries on the little child, which prompted their arrest by the Enugu State Police Command. She is now receiving treatment at the ESUT Teaching Hospital, Parklane, Enugu. Consequently, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi directed his Commissioner for Gender Affairs and Social Development, Princess Peace Nnaji, to visit the victim at the hospital to ensure that she receives proper medical attention. Nnaji, who was accompanied by the Chief Medical Director of ESUT Teaching Hospital, Prof. Hycienth Onah, empathised with the victim and promised the state government would not take the matter lightly. Responding, the victim’s mother, Mrs. Nnedinso Nnadi, expressed gratitude to the governor for his timely intervention. Prof. Onah said the victim was responding to treatment and “her chances of full recovery are high”.
 Meanwhile, a coalition of non- governmental organisations (NGOs), yesterday, protested in Enugu and called the Police to prosecute Mrs. Ifeoma Ozougwu and her husband, Mr. Jude Ozougwu. Represented by the Executive Director, Hope Givers Initiative (HOG-I), Mrs. OnyekaOkey Udegbunam; Secretary General, Women for Women, Enugu State and Leader, Enugu State Coalition for Justice, Ochiora Amaka Okonkwo; Leader, Igboezue International, Enugu State Chapter, Ocheze Chinemerem Anyi; Leader, Young Women Christian Association (YWCA), Mrs. Verginia Udeh and Project Officer, Voice to the People Project (V2P), Mrs. Ferdinard Omoja, they staged a protest, while urging the police to waste no time in prosecuting the culprits. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .