Sarah Dowson Image The Mirror Mum-of-three Sarah Dowson, 32, who used fake baby scans to convince the then 18-year-old that he was the father of her child and also accused him of rape, which led to his family raising the child for three-and-a-half years as if it were their own has been allegedly jailed. Married Sarah Dowson persuaded the then-18-year-old that during their sex trysts he had made her pregnant according to a report by The Mirror. She was only caught out when police spent £100,000 investigating her fraud and unearthed false baby scans she had bought on the internet. She had had sex with the teenager in woodland and fields after falling for him while celebrating his birthday. In the words of the judge, Judge Morris, who handled the court case: This was a mendacious course perpetrated against a young man 10 years your junior, who did not want to continue to have a sexual relationship with you. Your conduct was deliberate and vengeful, designed to cause trouble for your victim. At Reading Crown Court, Dowson admitted three counts of perverting the course of justice and one count of fraud. Her husband Thomas Dowson admitted one count of perverting the course of justice. He received a suspended sentence. The court heard that when the teenager told Dowson that he wanted to end their affair, she told him she had become pregnant. She started bombarding his mother with requests for child maintenance payments, after brandishing the baby scan photos. When the teenager’s family went to the police to complain about harassment, Dowson lodged a malicious allegation that the teen had raped her. She then further lied about him showing up at her home and sending her malicious messages, lies which were backed up by her husband, who believed the rape claim. The lies by Dowson started to unravel when police found the results of a DNA test, which she had hidden from the teenager and his family and which proved it was her husband who was the father all along. However, the prosecutor said police had discovered messages between Dowson and her husband which suggested she had not been pregnant at all and had actually been having a heavy period. Sarah Dowson, of Hutchins Way, Basingstoke, Hants., appearing from HMP Bronzefield via video link, was jailed for three and a half years. Thomas Dowson, of the same address, was ordered to complete 10 Rehabilitation Activity Requirement days, as well as being made subject to a restraining order.