The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, has inaugurated the Kaduna Emergency Communication Centre (ECC), built by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), alongside five Information Technology projects by other agencies. The ECC project, which makes it possible for residents in Kaduna and environs to dial 112 Emergency Number, to get help during emergencies from appropriate emergency response agencies, is aimed at supporting the Federal Government’s agenda to enhance the security of lives and property in Nigeria. NCC had built ECC in each of the 36 states of the federation and the FCT,19 of which are operational with Emergency Number 112 fully activated, while efforts are on-going to extend it to other states. Pantani also inaugurated the Tertiary Institution Knowledge Centre(TIKC) in the Enugu State Polytechnic, Iwollo, executed by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF) of NCC. Three other projects by the NationalInformation Technology Development Agency (NITDA), including the IT CommunityCentre in Katsina, and IT Hub each in the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), ZariaMain Campus, Kaduna, and the University of Lagos, were also inaugurated. The sixth project was the opening of the Nigeria Communication Satellite(NIGCOMSAT’s) Northwest Regional Office, in Kaduna, all of which took place during a virtual inauguration, at the NCC’s Communications and Digital Economy Complex, Mbora District, Abuja, and attended by all heads of agencies under the Ministry. At the event, Pantami said the projects were all connected to Nigeria’s digital economy drive, as contained in theNational Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS), unveiled by President Muhammad Buhari in November last year. He said: “These projects are connected to some of the pillars of then dips, especially with respect to developmental regulation, digital literacy and skills, solid infrastructure, among others,” urging Nigerians, who are the ultimate beneficiaries, to take advantage of the opportunities. He added that he would continue to work with other ministries, departments and agencies of government to ensure teething challenges facing ICT infrastructure deployment in the country are addressed to deepen the digital economy. Governor of Borno State and Chairman of the occasion, Babagana Zulum; as well as Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, and her counterpart in the Ministry of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who were guests of honour, commended the Ministry and its agencies for expanding the footprint of the digital economy across the country. Meanwhile, the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, and other heads of agencies under the Ministry, commended the Minister for promoting synergy among the agencies under his supervision, saying, “the projects will help in leading the country into a truly- digital economy.” He restated the Commission’s commitment to ensuring a robust broadband infrastructure in Nigeria, to support government’s initiatives aimed at accelerating the implementation of NationalDigital Economy Policy and Strategy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .