It’s amazing we are already in the month of July. I gotta act fast, someone is saying. Yes, that should be the spirit, to act fast, like the primary school poem says, ‘tick says the clock tick tick what you have to do, do quick.’ Procrastination should not be allowed for any reason. To procrastinate is to delay doing something that you should be done for whatever reason. We have a mandate, an authority to be fruitful, multiply, replenish, subdue and to have dominion, to be in charge. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. Genesis 1:28 Because our years on earth are few and full of troubles, reasons to draw back from manifestation should not be allowed or tolerated. And Joseph brought in Jacob his father and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? Genesis 47;7-8 The year of man on earth is true of few days and full of troubles. Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. Job 14;1
These troubles, Apostle Paul called light afflictions. Our suffering is light and temporary and is producing for us an eternal glory that is greater than anything we can imagine. 2 Corinthians 4:17 Especially when you know and understand the power that is at work in you. Troubles or challenges are common to man but are not intended to stop you. Rather, they are to fire up your passion and power to succeed in your dreams and visions in life. To procrastinate is to draw back from your dreams. Men of excuses have never won a race, excuses on why it is not possible or why it should not be done now or those who play the blame game; blame everyone and everything on why you can’t or it can’t be done or it is not done. Winning in life is not based on how many punches were thrown at you or that you received but how you took it and you are still standing. ‘Having done all to stand, stand therefore and pursue your dreams and succeed. You are to show up and shine, to be seen, have resulted and be visible in your field in rain or sunshine, night or day. And he shall be as the light of the morning when the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain. 2 Samuel 23:4 We know the trinity: God the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit to be real because they manifested in physical form when the word became flesh. Victory Life Bible Church Intl., Km. 9, Olabisi Onabanjo Way, Opp. Ogtv, Ajebo Abeokuta.  P.O.Box 1537, Sapon, Abeokuta 110001, Ogun State Nigeria, W/Africa Www.Vlbcinternational.Org  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .