The African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF) has officially cancelled all sporting activities for the rest of the year, following the postponement of the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) Africa Senior Championships, which serves as the continental qualification for the World Championship. Nigeria’s Aruna Quadri and Egypt’s Dina Meshref are currently the defending champions in the men and women’s categories of the competition last held in 2018 Mauritius. The championship earlier slated for this year was moved to next year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which necessitated lockdown across the world. According to a release by the ATTF President, Khaled El-Salhy, the postponement became necessary owing to COVID-19 pandemic, which has halted sporting activities globally. “I wish to inform all table tennis friends and colleagues in your country, the importance of a safe and healthy lifestyle in the current circumstances due to the ATTF suspends sporting activities till next year. “On Thursday, July 2, 2020, the ATTF executive committee had an online meeting to discuss the case for the ATTF calendar of 2020, which had been suspended earlier until further notice. We are closely monitoring the global and continental situation day-by-day to come back to you with the following decision. “We acknowledge the continuation and expansion of the pandemic in the whole world and consequently in Africa, as there is no guaranteed medicine or vaccine available. “Even normal international travel will not be possible till the end of 2020; thus it has been decided to postpone our following planned events,” he said, adding that other events slated for this year would be held next year. “The exact new dates for the ITTF-Africa Youth, Juniors and Cadet Championships holding in Madagascar, and the 2020 ITTF-Africa Senior Championships and WTTC qualification holding in Cameroon will be announced soon after checking the 2021 ITTF calendar. “This is to ensure no conflict with other world sanctioned international events in order to provide better planning to your top players and national teams,” Khaled El-Salhy added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .