• Detectives nab motorcycle snatchers in Ogun The Ogun State police command has warned notorious cult groups planning to unleash terror across the state tomorrow, Tuesday. The warning came on the heels of an intelligence report that the violence is meant to mark what they tagged 7/7, According to the state’s Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, a report revealed that members of the group were also planning to use the said date to initiate new members into their fold after which they would engage their rival cult groups in a supremacy battle, which might lead to loss of life and wanton destruction of property. He said: “In view of this, the Command wishes to warn those having such devilish plan to have a rethink and retrace their steps, as such move will be met with serious resistance from security agencies. To this end, all the command’s tactical squads namely SARS, anti-cultists, anti-kidnapping, as well as all the DPOs and Area Commanders, have been put on the red alert to nip in the bud any act capable of undermining the security of the state.” Oyeyemi appealed to parents and guardians to warn their children and wards to steer clear of any unlawful gathering before, on and after the said date to prevent an ‘Had I known,’ situation. “Also, hoteliers are, with this release, warned not to allow their facilities be used for any cult-related gathering as the owner of such facility too will be liable for prosecution.” Meanwhile, operatives of the command have arrested two notorious motorcycle snatchers who have been responsible for many cases of motorcycle theft within Mowe/Ofada axis.
The suspects, 35-year-old Feranmi Ajimosun and 33-year-old Samuel Awotile were arrested following a complaint by one Akinola Adenekan, who reported at Mowe Police Division that he picked two suspects on his motorcycle with Reg. No SGM 408 BN as passengers from Mowe going to Ofada and was rob of the motorcycle. According to him, on getting to Ofada Road, one of them suddenly turned his neck violently from behind, while the second one inflicted a machete cut on his forehead.
While he was struggling with them, some passersby met them at the scene and the hoodlums took to their heels. Upon the report, the Divisional Police Office, Mowe Division, SP Marvis Jayeola, detailed his detectives to unravel those behind the dastardly act, which led them to Ijere Worogudu village, where one of the suspects was apprehended. His arrest led to the arrest of the second suspect at Ogunrun Phase II, Abule Afa in Mowe.On interrogation, they confessed to being the brains behind cases of motorcycle theft in Mowe/Ofada and environs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .