 Kekemeke  One of the governorship aspirants in the just concluded Ondo State All Progressives Congress (APC) primary election, Isaac Kekemeke, has declared that he would not resort to litigation to challenge the result of the exercise. Kekemeke is the APC pioneer chairman, former Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and one of the 11 governorship aspirants who kicked against indirect primary mode for the election. Kekemeke, in a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday, said that he had accepted the result of the primary election in favour of the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, in good fate. He, however, said: “It is still my conviction that the process leading to the voting was slanted, skewed and compromised to produce a predetermined result. “The advantages and opportunities that incumbency confer were overstretched to constitute the incumbent into both an umpire and a contestant. “But then, the delegates have spoken clearly and so be it. I wish the winner and our party well.” Meanwhile, it was gathered that Akeredolu had met with Kekemeke and the second runner-up in the election, Chief Olusola Oke, to seek their support ahead of the October 10, 2020 governorship election. The governor, had in his acceptance speech immediately he was pronounced the winner, sued for peace among the aspirants. “The exceptional comportment on the part of our delegates and the seeming show of love for one another has thrown further challenges upon me as your leader and governor. “Most profoundly, I salute the courage of my brother aspirants. They have enriched the contest, no doubt. I must say that I am particularly enamoured by the determination and the industry we all put into this endeavour. “The campaigns preceding this day have been noticeably fraught with mixed feelings. Relationships in some cases may have been bruised and interests hurt.” In another development, an Akure High Court has struck out a motion ex-parte filed by one Anthony Akpofiwei seeking the disqualification of Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, from participating in the Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) primary election today. Akpofiwei also prayed the court to disqualify the deputy governor for alleged forged academic certificates and breaching code of conduct. Justice Bode Adegbengbe struck out the motion for lack of merit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .