 (FILES) In this file photo Elon Musk, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, poses on the red carpet as he arrives for the 43rd “Goldenes Lenkrad” (Golden Steering Wheel) awards on November 12, 2019 in Berlin. – Tesla founder Elon Musk on July 2, 2020 mocked securities regulators and short-sellers in series of tweets as the tech entrepreneur celebrated his firm’s rise as the world’s most valuable carmaker. The taunts came as shares in the electric carmaker revved on the news it produced more than 82,000 vehicles and delivered approximately 90,650 in the recently ended quarter despite production being disrupted due to the coronavirus epidemic. (Photo by Tobias SCHWARZ / AFP)  Musk, who has made premature predictions about the advent of completely autonomous cars before, offered the updated timetable in a pre-recorded message to a Shanghai tech fair. “I’m extremely confident that ‘Level 5’, or essentially complete autonomy, will happen, and I think will happen very quickly,” Musk said. “I remain confident that we will have the basic functionality… complete this year.” In years past, Musk had said Tesla may develop the technology for a completely autonomous vehicle by 2018, and then last year he said it may come by early 2020. The California-based electric carmaker became the world’s most valuable auto manufacturer earlier this month and its shares have soared this year thanks to strong output figures despite disruptions from the coronavirus epidemic. The complexity and autonomy of self-driving car technology is classified up to “Level 5”. Lower levels feature some combination of autonomous decision-making by the vehicle, along with as-needed human intervention. But Level 5 denotes a car that requires no human intervention at any time, allowing the passenger to sleep or watch a movie while the car handles all navigation as well as adjustments to avoid collisions. Tesla already enables partial autonomy for its cars, but analysts say the road to full autonomy faces considerable legal and regulatory hurdles, not to mention getting consumers to feel comfortable entrusting their cars with full control. Tesla is racing with Waymo, Uber and traditional automakers to bring autonomous vehicles to market. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .