The Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN) has reminded players interested in competing for any of the top PGAN positions to indicate their intentions by obtaining the nomination form for such positions. Elections into the positions were supposed to have held before the expiration of the tenure of the current executive committee last month. The vacant top positions include the PGA of Nigeria post, which is still being held by Samson Lawal; Director of Operations; Director of Tournament; Finance Director and Member-1 and Member-2 posts. Lawal had earlier in the year expressed his intention to leave his position after two terms to allow people with fresh ideas to continue from where he stopped. Speaking on the elections, PGA Nigeria Secretary General, Jide Bolaji, said that only financially bona fide members qualified for the polls, adding, however, “I cannot give figures or names of members seeking election for whichever post for now, because no one has expressed intention officially in this regard.” He said that rules for the elections are contained in the association’s constitution, adding, “topmost of the criteria is whoever seeks election into any of the positions must be a fully paid member of the association; it is a position that cannot be compromised.” PGA Nigeria’s General Manager, Mike Alika, disclosed that a 21-day notice would be served to interested candidates, adding that the notice would inform them of the election modalities. “The problem is that there’s no tournament yet; when we get a tournament after this COVID-19 pandemic, a 21-day notice will be served ahead of that tournament for those who are actually interested to formally come forward to pick forms,” he explained. He also disclosed that plans were on to stage the Jigawa State Governor’s Cup, which has not hold since it debuted in June 2018. “The Jigawa State Governor’s Cup would have come up this year if not for the COVID-19 that disrupted many things in the whole world. “The PGA of Nigeria has been in discussion with the Captain of the Club, Alhaji Umar Babangida and HRH, Alhaji Dr. Nuhu Sanusi since January 2020. It will hold again and the organisers are ready,” he assured. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .