Opinions are divided about the intention behind the Federal Government’s decision to standardise artisanal and small-scale gold mining in the North, as well as in Osun State, with the majority tilting to the government ceding resource control of gold to the states.
   
The Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMI), is designed to ensure safer and more efficient mining and processing technologies across artisanal mining locations across Nigeria, starting with Kebbi and Osun as the pilot states with intervention in Kaduna, Zamfara, and Niger states to commence immediately after.
 
Using a Centralized Offtake and Supply System, supported by a Decentralized Aggregation and Production Network, PAGMI will buy all the gold produced by artisanal and small-scale miners and aggregated by licensed buying centres and aggregators for supply to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN).  Specifically, General Secretary, Nigerian Mining and Geoscience Society (NMGS), Dr. Akinade Olatunji, noted that gold occurrences in Nigeria is confined within defined geologic units, and has nothing to do with politics or geopolitical issues.
 
He added that PAGMI initiative would make gold mining orderly, as only the Government will buy whatever the registered artisanal miners produce.  Gbadamosi argued that “If the government cannot match the international prices, then they should at least buy at rates higher than the established local rates. Furthermore, we need to make sure a database for those involved with mining our resources, either foreigners or locals, is properly scrutinized and every mining activity going on in the country. A cue could be taken from the way forest guards ensure they try their best to prevent lumbering activities. This should be done by the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency, and The Nigerian Ministry of Mines and Steel Development.” “Of course, trading with recognized markets like the London Bullion Market Association for gold is paramount. Although oil can be subsidized, gold does not enjoy the same luxury, and it cannot be regulated either, it can only be deregulated at best. Gold must remain exposed to the world market forces and any attempt to limit that by the government will destroy what she is trying to achieve through the PAGDMI.”
 
Speaking on addressing the funding gaps in the sector, Gbadamosi said: “The Government can also stand as surety for capital loans in form of working equipment and materials that will enhance mining operations, and in turn and use part of the proceeds to offset the loans they took. This will give the government moral authority as sponsors to access materials even at local rates; otherwise, foreign scavengers with a lot of capital to burn will always have the advantage. In
 the end, there is really no regulation that can stop miners from being patronised.”
   
Also, in a chat with The Guardian, a former President, Miners Association of Nigeria, Sani Shehu, urged the government to give the Artisanal and Small Scale Miners (ASM) formal and informal training on how to mine right, taking into consideration health, safety and environmental issues.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .