Mother of the 21-year-old student of the University of Ibadan, Richard Gbadebo, has pleaded with Nigerians not to allow her son die in vain.
 
Richard, a 300-level student of the Department of European Studies (German), had died after falling into a soap-making machine at a factory owned by Henkel Nigeria Limited, Ibadan, makers of WAW detergent and bar soap, where he did holiday job.
 
The deceased was on a night shift when he unknowingly slipped into one of the machines in the factory on Tuesday. He was discovered dead when his co-workers noticed blood coming from a side of the machine.
 
During a condolence visit to the family by members of the university management, Students’ Union and some students, the deceased’s mother wailed: “Do not allow WAW Company make me suffer in vain. He (Richard) went to struggle to assist us due to the COVID-19 break. He has worked for three months and has been buying things he will need when school resumes. My son was inside the machine since yesterday morning till the evening.  “The tragic incident shakes us and we assure you that we will do everything we can to clarify its cause. Our deepest sympathy goes to Richard’s family. We are in contact with them and will provide the necessary support in this difficult time.
 
“Out of respect, we will not make any further statement at this time. It was important for us to personally console his family before we comment on the incident on public channels,” the tweets read.
 
An aggrieved family member said that none of the staff of the factory followed them to their house after the unfortunate incident. She appealed to the state government to lock up the factory.
 
The university’s Students’ Union president, Olusegun Akeju, expressed his displeasure that the company had not visited the family. When the students visited the company at Oluyole, they were at first denied access into the premises, a development that almost triggered a commotion but for the intervention of the police.  “On behalf of the council senate congregation, management and students of the University of Ibadan, we want to commiserate with the family of the deceased on the sad loss of Gbadebo Richard. We pray to Almighty God to give the family the fortitude to the great loss and may the soul of the deceased rest in peace,” the institution prayed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .