 West Brom team during the game. Photo; TWITTER/WBA  Slaven Bilic’s side will join Championship title winners Leeds in the top-flight next season after a nail-biting Wednesday night at the Hawthorns. With third-placed Brentford beaten 2-1 by Barnsley and fourth-placed Fulham held to a 1-1 draw at Wigan, Albion finished in second place to secure their return to the Premier League after two seasons away. On a riveting finale in the second tier, 2013 FA Cup winners Wigan were relegated to League One along with Hull and Charlton. But the focus was on West Brom, who had blown a chance to consolidate their place in the top two when they were beaten by Huddersfield on Friday. Once again they made heavy weather of it against a QPR side with nothing to play for, but all that was forgotten as they celebrated a thrilling promotion. Ryan Manning’s superb low drive gave QPR a shock lead after 34 minutes. Grady Diangana equalised just before half-time when he fired in after Callum Robinson set him free. Diangana and Robinson combined again five minutes after the break to put the Baggies ahead. West Ham loanee Diangana eased away from two QPR defenders and his cross found the unmarked Robinson to tap in. QPR wasn’t making it easy for West Brom and the tension mounted after Eberechi Eze lashed a 61st-minute equaliser into the top corner. West Brom’s attention turned to Griffin Park, where Brentford was unable to take advantage as they chased the first season in the top-flight in 73 years. – West Brom joy –
Brentford, who missed a chance to go second when they lost at Stoke on Saturday, found themselves trailing when Barnsley’s Callum Styles struck in the 40th minute. With West Brom draw, a victory would have taken Brentford up and Josh Dasilva’s curler from the edge of the area drew them level in the 72nd minute. But in stoppage-time, Clarke Oduor tapped in Barnsley’s winner and news quickly spread to the Hawthorns, where Bilic implored his players to defend the point that would take them up. Barnsley’s surprise victory lifted them out of the relegation zone in the most dramatic fashion. Brentford will have to pick themselves up for the playoffs, where they will face a two-legged semi-final against Swansea, who made a stunning climb into sixth place with a 4-1 win at Reading. Swansea took the place of Nottingham Forest, whose 4-1 home defeat against Stoke knocked them below the Welsh club on goal difference. The other play-off semi-final will see Fulham face fifth-placed Cardiff, who eased to a 3-0 win over bottom of the table Hull. Troubled Wigan is relegated following the end-of-season deduction of 12 points for going into administration earlier this month. The Latics, who were last in the Premier League in 2013, had reached 59 points, but the deduction reduced their total to 47, which left them in the relegation zone. Wigan have appealed against the points penalty, which was triggered when the controversial sale of the club left them in the hands of new owners, who immediately opted to go into administration. Charlton went down after a 4-0 thrashing at Leeds, who were presented with the Championship trophy — their first silverware since 1992. Luton climbed out of the bottom three at Charlton’s expense after a 3-2 win over Blackburn.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .