• IBB, APC govs, NUJ, NGE, Momoh pay tributes
• Association flays Arotile’s death, calls for proper driving certification The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has expressed grief over the death of its foundation member, Alhaji Ismaila Funtua. ACF leaders also condoled with the family of the former Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and member of the ACF, Gen. Mohammed Wushishi (rtd.), who lost his brother. While extolling the attributes of the late Funtua in a statement yesterday, the ACF spokesman, Emmanuel Yawe, said: “ACF has lost a cherished foundation member who was actively involved in the conception and formation of the forum 20 years ago.” In the same vein, former Military President, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida (rtd.), has described Funtua as a detribalised Nigerian who believed that the country was better off as a united entity. Babangida stated this in his tribute yesterday to the ally of President Muhammadu Buhari who passed on Monday in Abuja. According to him, the late Funtua was his close family friend of over 50 years and they were closely-knitted until his sudden death. Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) also mourned him. PGF Chairman, Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Bagudu, in a message to President Buhari and government of Katsina State, prayed for the repose of Funtua’s soul. The governors described the death as a loss to the nation, the business community and patriots.
SIMILARLY, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and former minister of Information, Tony Momoh, have joined other Nigerians to pay tributes to Funtua. According to Momoh, the mourning of this great gift to the print media will be observed by the media world.  However, the publicity secretary of NGE, Mustapha Isa, said the guild, which was deeply saddened by Funtua’s demise, prayed God to grant the family the fortitude to bear the loss. Chairman of NUJ, Lagos State Council, Quasim Akinreti, described Funtua’s passing as a great loss to the nation and the media industry.
MEANWHILE, Driving Schools Association of Nigeria (DSAN) has condemned in totality the circumstances leading to the death of Nigeria’s first female bomber pilot, Tolulope Arotile. President of DSAN, Jide Owatunmise, after a virtual meeting of the national executive of the association yesterday, stated that reports revealed that the driver that killed Arotile did not have a licence. According to him, there are so many more people driving in the country without a driver’s licence, with statistics showing that over 70 per cent of those currently holding the licences in Nigeria did not have the requisite knowledge and skill to be behind the wheel. Therefore, the association advocated refresher training for drivers. “Driving is very dynamic that everyone who drives needs to regularly attend refresher training in standard driving schools as provided for in the statutes books,” it stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .