Members of the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC), an umbrella body of all the political parties in the country, could not contain their excitement as they hailed the vision behind the Real Madrid Academy in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. He chorused that it would refocus the lives of youths from Rivers State and its environs. Speaking during an inspection tour of the academy at the weekend, an IPAC delegation, led by its Chairman in Rivers State, Ambassador Desmond Akawor, said the academy, which has direct contact with Real Madrid Football Club of Spain, would provide the needed exposure for students and other youths. Akawor said, “I can tell you that what we have seen with the ongoing work of the student hostels and administration work, there is seriousness in this environment. We believe that at the end of the day, this will really turn a new leaf of life for our people… it will give us the opportunity to have students, who have gone through proper soccer training and in addition quality education.” The group said they embarked on the tour to see what the state was doing, know how to advise the state and equally commend the state in areas they have done well. Responding, the Special Adviser to the Rivers State Governor on Real Madrid Academy, Christopher Green, assured that the football academy would be a legacy of the Governor Nyesom Wike-led administration. He said: “We will have the kind of surge we have never had before in this state, where everybody will want to be here. The students will not just benefit from the academic work, but will also have the opportunity of making it in football where they can earn money and be beneficial to themselves and their families and even the society as a whole. “The good people of Rivers State cannot thank Governor Nyesom Wike enough for his vision in setting up this academy. By setting up this academy, Governor Wike has secured the future of our youths. With this project, our youths can build their capacity for job creation and wealth. It will also help them to live a healthier and happy life.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .