Davido and May D Many Nigerians on the microblogging platform Twitter have expressed their pleasure with Nigerian superstar singer Davido after learning that fellow singer May D has signed to the record label Davido Music Worldwide(DMW). Davido’s owned DMW music label is a prestigious one and is also dubbed the 30 Billion Gang. The name DMW came into existence after Davido officially announced his break from HKN Music. Boasting of talents like Davido himself, Peruzzi, Mayorkun, and Dremo to mention but a few, the label was launched in 2016 and is arguably one of Nigeria’s most thriving music labels. Positive reactions and praises ar being heaped on Davido following the announcement that “Ile Ijo” singer May D has signed with DMW. Below are reactions to the news. Davido on course to put May D on the Map again. — Tunde Ednut (@TundeEddnut) July 18, 2020  Davido takes care of everyone and everything… His family, his gang… Even his fans  man just brot May D to DMW.. IF I WASN'T STANNING DAVIDO I WOULD HAVE BEEN WASTING MY "STANSHIP" #davido #30BG — Nimill (@Nimill2) July 18, 2020  Y'all thought Davido was joking when he said "we rise by lifting others" He just signed May D into 30BG! A King — AYOLEX  (@ayolex_official) July 18, 2020   Mr May D just got signed to DMW I stan, restan, alway going to stan Davido A KING Big win for both DMW and May D — Chioma (@dahtgirl_ajex) July 18, 2020  Davido be doing great things, baba just signed Mr May D I am officially leaving Wizkid Fc today to join Davido Fc — The Ómó Ìbó  (@chinazzar_) July 18, 2020  I might be pro Wizkid FC, but doesn't stop me from recognizing what davido does and celebrating him Dude has an amazing heart, especially for someone that grew up with all that privilege. Bless him for giving Mr May D another chance at stardom. — BAD NIGGA 🦡 (@badniggafela) July 18, 2020  Davido is that one friend that everyone needs in their life When Sauce kid got out of jail, Davido was there for him When Cynthia Morgan had no one to turn to, Davido reached out to herWhen May D thought all hope was lost, Davido welcomed him to DMWGod I love this man  pic.twitter.com/6eIQmSZO3m — Vinnie (@vinz6199) July 18, 2020  Congratulations May D on joining DMW family. If you remember, Davido signed Sauce Kid after he got released from Jail to revive his career, he did same thing for Dammy Krane, Now May D. Take it or Take it, that guy is a blessing to Naija Music Industry  pic.twitter.com/HhhiMVNX24 — Salman (@NotJustSalmanPR) July 18, 2020  Weeks back, Davido took a break from social media and announced that he would be returning to social media after the release of his third album, ‘A Better Time,’  this July. At the time, he wrote: “If you cannot reach me, don’t reach me. I will contact you. All my life, I have put people before me.I think it’s time to actually live my life and take care of myself. I have changed my number. I needed some cleansing to do. Love you all.”