Yvonne Orji | Image: Vogue The days are now rainy and the weather a bit windy and cold. Wearing flats, and scandal heels could be quite uncomfortable due to the ground wetness and cold weather. One could possibly get your feet wet or catch cold feet due to the cool breeze. Well, not to worry, high boots are here to for the rescue. High boots are perfect for this rainy season. The above ankle boots and the thigh-high boots keep is protective for the legs and very chic. Pairing high boots with an outfit to come off as fashionable can be challenging and end up in a total fashion mess. Generally, high boots are the last choice of footwear to put on and mostly kept on the far end of most individuals’ shoe rack. Notwithstanding, high boots are trendy and its high form gives a smart, sexy, and voguish look when worn right using these tips: Rihanna | Image: Stars Insider Pair with denim wears
Boots paired with jean trousers or skirt is a perfect fit for everyone, it is a safe fashionable way to show off your boots. You can finish the look with a plain colour button shirt or T-shirt of your choice. Boots paired with denim trousers or skirt gives a more fitting look when the body of the boot is slightly tight. Victoria Kimani | Image: 9jaflaver Pair with slit outfits
You can rock your high boots with outfits that have slits. The slit could either be on the sides or in front of your outfit, whichever style of slit works for high boots. Show off those legs rocking your boots. Lupita Nyong’o | Image: Robert O’ nei/Daily Mail Pair with short wears
With the rain now in season, wearing short outfits isn’t much of an option for many. But, with a high knee and thigh-high boots, rocking your short wears is possible because you stay cosy while showing off a little skin. Compared to short wears paired with regular footwear, high boots matched with short outfits give a more slinky appearance. Worry no more about staying fashionable during the cold weather. Stride the streets of your city in your high boots and stay stylish. Tiwa Savage | Image: Creebhills Beyonce | Image: US Magazine/CHP-FAMEFLYNET PICTURES