Ondo State youths, under the aegis of Ekimogun Round Table, have lauded President Muhammadu Buhari on the appointment of Nimi Akinkugbe as ambassadorial nominee for Ondo State. The group, which condemned in strong terms an attempt by any individual or groups to deny her of the nomination, described Akinkugbe, a native of Rivers State but married to an Ondo State indigene, as a resourceful person that will do the nation proud. Some persons had kicked against his nomination, claiming that the slot belongs to Ondo State and should not be given to a Rivers State indigene.But in a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday by the group’s Secretary, Olusola Akinbinu, the youths insisted: “Akinkugbe is eminently qualified by virtue of her academic and career achievements and also her state of origin, which is Ondo.” The group further stated: “Nimi is happily married to Yinka Akinkugbe, a native of Ondo Kingdom in Ondo West Local Council of Ondo State and has over the years displayed very outstanding philanthropic gesture towards Ondo State people at home and abroad. “Nimi’s contribution to the growth of our community is also worthy of commendation. Hence, by undisputable implication, she is by right of marriage an indigene of Ondo Kingdom in Ondo State, and a resourceful person to represent Nigeria.” It cited the case of an Osun State-born Senator Folasade Grace Bent who represented Adamawa South in the National Assembly in 2007. They argued that aside Akinkugbe’s academic achievements which stand her out, she is equally fit to represent Ondo State by virtue of marriage which is in accordance with the amended Federal Character Commission Act of 2017. According to them, “Section 2, Part II of the Federal Character Commission (Establishment, etc) Act, (Amendment Bill), 2017 gives married women the option of choosing the indigeneship of their fathers or husbands. “It is undeserving to discriminate against women, and their rights in this modern age. We can tell the world that she is our Amazon and every lover of good development in Ondo State is happy with her nomination.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .