 The Executive Director, National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB) Alhaji Adedayo Thomas setting fire on the works  The burning exercises, which were conducted in Jos and Bauchi under the watchful eyes of the Executive Director of the Board, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas and some Board members, is in continuation of the fight by the Board to eradicate all uncensored, unclassified and pornographic films and video works from the Nigerian market. The Board had carried out similar exercises in Kaduna, Kano, Lagos, Benin, Onitsha, Port Harcourt and Akure before the pandemic began. Over half a billion Naira worth of uncensored, unclassified and pornographic materials have been destroyed so far. Speaking during the exercise at the North Central Zonal Office, at the Ministry of Environment’s burning site at Mista Ali along Zaria Road Jos, Adedayo stated that the Board has taken the fight to the perpetrators of this hideous economic crime after all entreaties were unsuccessful. According to him, “The Board cannot fold its arms and watch some criminal gangs stifle the film industry and create untold hardship to filmmakers. This burning exercise today shows that the Board has zero tolerance to uncensored, and unclassified films and video works.” He urged filmmakers not to be deterred by the activities of these criminal gangs, as the Board is leaving no stone unturned to bring them to book. “Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, we are here today carrying out this exercise as a sign of solidarity with the filmmakers to reassure them they are together with the Board in this battle to rid the market of uncensored and unclassified contents.” Thomas also stressed on the duties of the NFVCB and the importance of keeping the society sane and sanitised of unwholesome movies that will not contribute positively to the wellbeing of Nigerian citizens. He reiterated that parents should pay watchful attention to what their wards watch using the burning exercise as deterrent to all who engage in sales and distribution of such movie contents. A representative of the Plateau State Commissioner for Environment, Mr Albert Chimang, graced the exercise in Jos. In Bauchi, the Executive Director carried out another burning exercise where he was assisted by a board member, Alhaji Babagan Sabo. “The Board is sending a clear message to those engaged in the business of producing unclassified and uncensored films and video works to henceforth desist from such activities as there is no hiding place for them anymore.”
   
He informed that the Board has trained over 150 in various Police colleges to combat the activities of these criminals, commending the Nigeria Police for collaborating with the Board to satitise the market. Thomas noted that filmmakers have no excuse not to censor their movies, as the Board has introduced virtual censorship of films to help filmmakers censor their works even during this lockdown. The censorship and issuance of certificate, according to him, is now done in one week. As a way of encouraging the staff of the Board, the management recently rewarded various staff, who have excelled in the performance of their duties. They were rewarded with cash gifts and commendation letters.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .