 Blaugrana Group Chairman, Leslie Oghomienor (left) presenting First Lady, Aisha Buhari’s jersey to chairperson of the Legends for Children’s Project, Ms. Abibatu Abudu Ajayi, in Lagos…at the weekend.  The Blaugrana Group launched the Legends for Children Project in 2018 with the objective of nurturing young children into great legends, promote grassroots sports development and values of sportsmanship and social integration using the FC Barcelona methodology. The group at the weekend inaugurated a committee for the project, as well as honoured the former Super Eagles stars for their services to the game. Ikpeba, who spoke on behalf of the former Eagles’ stars, said the project was the way to go because modern football required the players learning more than just how to kick the ball. He called on other stakeholders to learn from the Blaugrana Group example, saying Nigeria has abundant talents waiting to be discovered. Earlier, Chairman, Blaugrana Group, Leslie Oghomienor, said the recent outstanding performance in JAMB by one of the trainee player, Akakbota Fejeiro Simeon, showed that youth footballers could actually hold their own in academics when given the encouragement. He said FC Barcelona Nigeria has been working tirelessly to ensure that every child, aside doing sports, is given quality education and guidance that will help him to live better and meaningful life and in the process free the society from burdens. “Our Group is driven by the quest to nurture children with talents into great legends, using the little resources we have, applying the FC Barcelona methodology in an environment with first-class facilities, supervised by well-honed seasoned professionals. The Legends For Children Project is one of the best ways we will berth our dream. “Now, is the right time to invest in a greater tomorrow through them,” Oghomienor said. He added that the body would also try to develop a strategic and holistic plan for sustainable youth sports, education, development and empowerment template that can serve as radar in the sports sector. Responding on behalf of the 13-man committee, Ms. Abibatu Abudu Ajayi, a business and communication strategist, attached to the Group, acknowledged the importance of the project to children’s education, youth development and empowerment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .