Beyonce Accused Of Faking Being Black By Aspiring Congress Man In a new conspiracy online, Beyonce has been accused of faking being black and hiding her true identity as an Italian woman named Ann. This theory was peddled by a congressional candidate in the US. KW Miller, who is running to represent Florida’s 18th Congressional District in America’s November election, has made a series of twisted claims about the singer on Twitter. Miller’s false claims include a wild story that Beyonce is really of Italian descent and her real name is Ann Marie Lastrassi. According to his tweet: Beyoncé is not even African American. She is faking this for exposure. Her real name is Ann Marie Lastrassi. She is Italian. You all do know that Beyoncé’s song “Formation” was a secret coded message to the globalists I certainly hope? The song clearly admitted that she was demonic and that she worshipped in the Satanist churches located in Alabama & Louisiana. She keeps Satanist symbols in her bag. However, her followers and fans were totally against this theory and they questioned the opinions of Miller with so many suggesting he seeks professional help. Some pointed out that he seemed to have taken the conspiracy theory from a piece of fan fiction written about Beyonce. Someone tweeted: “Sir this is a fanfiction written by a fan.” Another wrote: “This man is running for Congress and has unhealthy mental health issues. This isn’t funny. “He should not be anywhere near Congress. He needs help! This is NOT funny.” Given the furious responses he received, a gloating Miller tweeted that he was “blowing up social media”. He added: Over 1 Million views on just one post, which means his following is 100 times larger due to massive censorship. He then likened himself to the “Chuck Norris of the MAGA Movement”. He also spoke about the coronavirus situation, stating that he is not scared of catching coronavirus. Coronavirus is scared of catching me. KW Miller is seeking to represent Florida’s 18th Congressional District in November.