• Uzodimma’s Hurdles As APC Plots Southeast Takeover January 14, 2020, has come to represent an important date in the political calendar of Imo State. The change of guard from the brief interregnum of Peoples Democratic Party´s (PDP) administration of Hon. Emeka Ihedioha to the All Progressives Congress (APC) tenure of Senator Hope Uzodinma, was swift and sharp. The recent demolition of Okorocha’s tunnel, coming few weeks after report of the Imo State University visitation panel exposed the silent war between the two political leaders. While Okorocha, through his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo described the report as a rehash of the PDP narrative, the Chief Press Secretary and Media Adviser to Governor Uzodinma, Nwachukwu Oguwike, said the actions of his principal are evidence of a governor that is focused and detached from distraction. According to Oguwike, “Government is a process. We are following the due process, where there is a need for law; the House of Assembly is involved to make the necessary legislation. The governor insists on the rule of law. In the past, you witnessed executive and legislative rascality, but the governor wants to put all that behind us. Now there is a synergy among the three arms of government.” While the opposition whips up sentiment against the administration, the Uzodinma administration continues to confront governance challenges, including delivering on his mandate and redeeming the image of the party from the hangover of the troublesome tenure of Senator Rochas Okorocha, who redefined governance in the state with iberiberism. 
 
But, apart from confronting the challenges of governance, Governor Uzodinma and APC are faced with the onerous task of refining the delicate balance between zonal political calculations and meritocracy cum good governance.
 
The death of Senator Emeka Uwajumogu created the opening for the current jostling for a replacement. The Imo East Senatorial seat election was protracted given the plot by the former governor Okorocha to stop Uwajimogu, who as member of the United Front, stood against Okorocha’s plot to impose his son in law, Uche Nwosu, on APC as the gubernatorial standard-bearer.  One Ezenweaku Orih told The Guardian that those past political patronages explained the massive vote haul across the 388 polling units that gave Uzodimma the definite victory at the Supreme Court on January 14, which was upheld on March 3, 2020.  It is left to be seen, how far the current administration will go in sustaining its silent achievements and engendering political harmony in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .