The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State has elected Udo Ekpenyong as chairman. He was elected alongside 38 others into the State Executive Committee (SEC) of the party. The election, which had 3,845 delegates with the 39 offices each having one aspirant, also saw the election of Harrison Ekpo as secretary and Borono Bassey as publicity secretary. Ekpenyong was political adviser to erstwhile Governor Victor Attah. Until his election as the new PDP boss, he was the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs. Governor Udom Emmanuel, at the occasion, said the party was challenged to do more for the growth of the state, despite its numerous achievements, and commended the efforts of the outgoing SEC in repositioning the party and enthroning peace. The governor maintained that God had always directed the PDP in all elections it contested, adding that the party in the state remained a model of party politics and democracy in the country. In his acceptance speech, Ekpenyong, who attributed his election to God’s grace, promised to be focused, consolidating on gains made to take the party to greater heights. The new chairman commended the outgoing SEC for laying a good foundation for them and promised political inclusion and consultation while giving the party a human face. Soliciting loyalty from party members, he said: “Together we make a solemn promise not to let the party down and to work closely with the leader of the party, Governor Emmanuel.” In his valedictory speech, the outgoing chairman, Paul Ekpo, lauded the cooperation of party faithful and said his tenure witnessed the institutionalisation of internal democracy in the party. “We used persuasion to create harmony and peaceful co-existence within, while we wielded the rod against those who sought to divide us through the employment of selfish schemes. The task of constantly maintaining that delicate balance was herculean, but it paid off greatly,” Ekpo said. Earlier, chairman of the congress committee and former deputy governor of Abia State, Eric Nwakama, had lauded the cooperation and level of organisation in the party in the area and tasked elected officers to give maximum cooperation to the leader of the party in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .