ABUAD procures smart temperature measurement, others ahead of resumption Osun State Government said it had recorded two fatal casualties in the COVID-19 pandemic while fresh 14 other persons tested positive for the disease.The state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Rafiu Isamotu, who disclosed this in a statement in Osogbo, yesterday, said that four patients were also discharged from its treatment and isolation centre same day after testing negative for the virus, while two deaths were recorded. The commissioner noted that the new cases were discovered following contact tracing of previous cases in the state. He, therefore, appealed to citizens and residents of the state to observe all the precautionary measures laid down by the state against the spread of the virus. Isamotu also revealed that, with the latest development, the number of confirmed cases in the state had risen to 165 with 95 active cases. “With the latest development, the number of our active cases as of today is 95 confirmed cases, out of which the state has successfully treated and discharged 63 patients while seven deaths have been recorded,” the commissioner added. In the same vein, the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), said it had procured multi-million naira smart temperature measurement & disinfectant channels for screening of its students and members of staff upon resumption for academic works. A statement by the Head, Corporate Affairs of the institution, Tunde Olofintila, said ABUAD had spent several millions of naira to purchase three units of smart temperature measurement & disinfectant channels. According to him, the smart temperature measurement & disinfectant channels have thus beefed up the earlier equipment such as Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) machine, Corona virus Test Kits for Antigen Testing, RNA Extraction Kits, Naso-pharygeal swab sticks and liquid medium, Biosafety Cabinet, an isolation centre and other accessories. ABUAD Founder & Chancellor, Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), said the aim of spending millions of naira to buy the equipment and facilities was to ensure that those who have the virus are not allowed into the university. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .