The U.S. Government leads the globe with $12.5 billion allocated to benefit international COVID-19 response, including commitments for the development of vaccines and therapeutics, preparedness efforts, and foreign assistance. We are achieving real results, helping nations around the world respond to COVID-19 and thereby protecting the homeland. We continue to ensure that the substantial U.S. funding and scientific efforts on this front remain a central and coordinated part of the worldwide effort against the disease. Importantly, our global efforts in the face of this deadly virus build upon decades of U.S. investment in life-saving health and humanitarian assistance. The American people can be proud of the real and lasting impact their taxpayer dollars are helping to make across the globe.  Since the outbreak of COVID-19, the U.S. Government has announced more than $1.3 billion in State Department and U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) emergency health, humanitarian, economic, and development assistance specifically aimed at helping governments, international organizations, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) fight the pandemic. This funding, provided by U.S. taxpayers, will save lives by improving public health education; protecting healthcare facilities; and increasing laboratory, disease-surveillance, and rapidresponse capacity in more than 120 countries. The United States has mobilized as a nation to make this an impressive global effort. Working with the private sector, we are actively fulfilling President Trump's commitment to provide ventilators to our partners and allies in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. Our foreign assistance funding to date for the response to the COVID-19 pandemic now includes nearly $200 million specifically for ventilators. The COVID-19 assistance to-date from the State Department and USAID includes the following: These new amounts do not include assistance being provided by other U.S. Government Departments and Agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Defense (DoD). In addition to this direct funding from the U.S. Government, our All-of-America approach is helping people around the world to confront the ongoing pandemic. Through the generosity of American private businesses, non-profit groups, charitable organizations, faith-based organizations, and individuals, Americans have now provided more than $4.6 billion in donations and assistance globally for COVID-19 response, more than any other nation. To meet the most urgent needs, U.S. Government Departments and Agencies are coordinating efforts to prioritize foreign assistance to maximize the potential for impact. The United States is providing the following assistance through the State Department and USAID: Africa: Middle East and North Africa: Global: Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .