 Students in a lecture room  Since 2015, everything and anything that could go wrong in Nigeria’s education system has gone wrong and the whipping boy is Adamu Adamu,  who has presided over a taciturn education ministry.
 
The rot in Nigeria’s education system goes beyond its dwindling standards, it sinks to the bottom of ICT infrastructures, both software and hardware, and that deficiency has become too telling with many Nigerian university students feeling the angst of arrested development occasioned by the COVID-19 crisis.
 
While many private universities have carried on with academic activities, and even conducted examinations, Nigeria’s (federal and state) government-owned universities have crumbled under the weight of the coronavirus pandemic. And the difference is that: private universities have the infrastructure for virtual (online) education while the public ones do not.  “The system helps in no small measure to correct the problems plaguing the educational sector, such as examination malpractice, decline standards of education and cultism, as students are gainfully engaged in academic and social activities,” said the authors.  “More fingers are pointing to the Federal Government of Nigeria on these issues,” said authors of the study. Therefore, the government policies and programmes of e-learning in Nigerian university education should be financially supported by substantial public funding. On the issue of funding, the Federal Government should take a bold step to yield to the recommendation of the UNESCO which prescribe 26 per cent of the annual budget for education,” they added. Some stakeholders, in their assessment of the sub-sector, said public universities lack the infrastructure, funding, flexibility and personnel to make a switch to full online teaching at short notice. They noted that private universities, compared to their public counterparts, are more modern in terms of laboratory facilities, ICT infrastructure and other teaching equipment, and are more flexible in their governance and administrative structures.
 
The Vice Chancellor, Technical University, Ibadan, Prof. Ayobami Salami, said it is important that Nigerian tertiary institutions invest in technologies to meet up with the challenge. “We cannot be talking about industrial revolution if we don’t invest. By now, we should be able to deploy our learning management system in such a way that students can learn from home. Let’s not forget that the clock does not stop ticking …. Why then should learning stop because of the pandemic? By the time the pandemic stops, we are coming back to where we stopped, whereas foreign institutions have gone to achieve the necessary.  On his part, the Vice Chancellor, University of Ibadan, Prof. Idowu Olayinka,  emphasised the need for training and change of mindset on the part of lecturers. “We need to invest in infrastructure – perhaps lectures will be delivered through Skype or teleconferences. Lecturers can even upload notes online and students will download for assignment. “It requires training and retraining the lecturers to be more familiar with technologies. Some professors are ‘computer immigrants.’ So, they need to be updated so that in this period of the pandemic, a lot can still be achieved in our schools,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .