People of the South East resident in the 19 northern states have expressed support for the leadership of the Nnia Nwodo-led Ohanaeze Ndigbo, saying he surpassed his predecessors in terms of performance. Deputy President of Igbo Delegates Assembly (IDA), Chris Nnoli, who stated this in an interview with The Guardian in Awka, Anambra State yesterday, noted that Nwodo had made sacrifices in the course of projecting, promoting and defending Igbo interests. Nnoli, who is also the President of Igbo Community Welfare Association (ICWA), pointed out that Nwodo had traversed the entire country and the Diaspora to intervene in matters affecting the Igbo and resolved most of them amicably without blowing his own trumpet. He stated that there were many anti-Igbo people who recruit some misguided Ndigbo to undermine the region’s leadership. Nnoli, who spoke in company of President of Anambra Indigenes Welfare Association (AIWA), Shedrack Dimoha, canvassed rotational arrangement to guarantee that the next President of the country would come from the South East zone. He said if the power rotation principle among the Hausa-Fulani, Igbo and Yoruba were to be maintained, a Nigerian President of Igbo extraction in 2023 would be a reality, adding, “That will create a sense of belonging and ensure peaceful co-existence among the groups, as well as guarantee progress of the country in line with the tripartite nature of the nation’s polity.” He noted that there was the need for South East politicians to involve all political parties in the country to actualise the ‘Igbo President’ project.Nnoli said Nigeria belonged to different ethnic nationalities and urged the citizens to feel free wherever they reside or do business. He noted that Ndigbo saw everywhere they reside as home and tended to build houses and shops there, a virtue he attributed to the fact that the Igbo were the greatest believers in one indivisible country. On his part, Dimoha pointed out that IWA, which is part of ICWA, should liaise with governors of the South East to present a common front in projecting the interests of Ndigbo. Urging his compatriots in the North to remain peaceful and law-abiding in their host communities, he urged the governors to intervene and identify with the Nwodo-led leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, remember their people in the North and provide more palliatives to cushion the effects of COVID-19. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .