Dell Technologies on Monday announced plans to help emerging markets in East, West and Central Africa recover economically from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Dell Technologies reinforced its commitment to providing its customers with advanced IT, security and workplace technologies that drive business continuity and growth at a virtual media roundtable attended by its executives in Africa. At the roundtable, Dell Technologies Emerging Africa vice president Habib Mahakian,  General Manager – Central West Africa Travers Nicholas and Nizar El-Masri, GM – Dell Technologies East Africa, highlighted the company’s portfolio of enterprise and consumer solutions for the pandemic era. The solutions are expected to accelerate the digital delivery of modern IT services that can differentiate a business, its products and operations with new technologies and products across commercial PCs, storage and cloud. PowerStore is a newly launched mid-range storage solution built from the ground up with superior technology and expertise to address the challenges of the data era while PowerScale is designed for organizations that want to manage their data, not their storage. Dell Technologies Cloud OneFS for Google Cloud, another of its product, is a solution that helps organizations migrate enterprise business-critical, file-based workloads to Google Cloud. “We’re seeing a lot of changes in the market in terms of the need to increase investments in digital technologies,” Mahakian said. “In this time of intense change, we see technology as a key path to economic recovery and companies need to build and strengthen the foundations for their digital future.” He stated that the solutions are aimed at simplifying “this journey for our customers and partners, with solutions that enable business leaders to use advanced technologies to drive growth and improve competitiveness.” Dell Technologies GM – Central West Africa Travers Nicholas said digitisation holds key to transforming industries to contribute to national GDP in multiple ways while also promoting the growth of allied industries such as logistics, infrastructure, and payments. He cited an example of the banking and finance sector which he believed continues to evolve and transform with several digital banking initiatives being introduced that is increasing financial inclusion. “This, in turn, leads to an increase in a country’s productivity and competitiveness – lowering unemployment rates, increasing access to technology-enabled services for citizens and creating higher-wage and higher-impact jobs,” Nicholas said. “At Dell Technologies, we are committed to helping organizations accelerate their digital transformation journey and building an eco-system of innovation.” He explained that as the future concept becomes a reality for organizations, employees now require the flexibility to work, collaborate and innovate anytime, anywhere and in any way they want. Nicholas assured organisations and customers that Dell “is implementing world-class technologies that give organizations and their workforces a competitive advantage to succeed in a post-pandemic business environment.” Dell Technologies GM – East Africa Nizar El-Masri said with the pandemic causing the world to evolve, organizations are recognizing that workforce transformation is key to long-term business success and many have started to change their operating model to accommodate this need for change. “Businesses must re-evaluate their workforce skills and develop cohesive ecosystems of technologies, services and products that are scalable and can connect with changing customer demands,” El-Masri said. Another key aspect of Dell Technologies commitment to driving transformation across Emerging Africa, El-Masri said includes its social impact initiatives like ‘Progress Made Real Vision 2030’. He said Dell Technologies is committed to harnessing the power of technology to drive change across four key pillars in advancing sustainability, cultivating inclusion, transforming lives with technology and upholding ethics and data privacy. El-Masri noted that there are education and youth skills training programs such as Solar Learning Labs to focus on addressing the digital divide to drive long-term economic prosperity and equip youth with the skills they need to successfully compete in a digital era.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .