My comment on Rivers gov political statement, says Kano gov Rivers State Governor and Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Campaign Council for Edo State Governorship Election, Nyesom Wike, has described as irresponsible threats by Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje to isolate him during the election. At the inauguration of the Campaign Council in Abuja yesterday, Wike said he was shocked that Ganduje could dish out such threats to a sitting governor. He said such a threat meant that the people of Edo would not be allowed to cast their votes peacefully. The Rivers governor said the committee’s terms of reference was to ensure that the result was according to the people’s will. “I want to assure you that, by the grace of God, nothing will stop us from victory. Nobody can intimidate us in this election,” he boasted. On the threat by Ganduje, he said, “Yesterday, I was told and today I read on the pages of the newspaper that one Governor Ganduje said that he was going to isolate me until the election is over. If Nigeria is supposed to be a country, who is supposed to be isolated? A man who pockets dollar from contractors is not isolated and you say that I should be isolated. In this country, where are we heading to?” He wondered how Ganduje thought PDP would lose Edo when the party had so much support base, especially in the South-South. According to Wike, the statement meant that the All Progressives Congress (APC) had concluded with security agencies to ensure that Edo people did not protect and defend their votes. Earlier, PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, had declared that the APC former National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, had made the campaign very easy for the PDP in Edo. But the Kano governor, who chairs the APC National Campaign Council for the Edo ballot, has described his recent comment on Wike as a mere political statement. Ganduje, who gave the clarification yesterday during a television programme, insisted that the Rivers governor would be shut down. While boasting that APC would do everything possible to win the September 19 election, he had said Wike would be put in isolation till the election was over. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .