• Accuses govt of exploiting Nigerians 
Leaders of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) have frowned at the recent increase in the pump price of petrol from N121 to N143 per litre, describing the hike as exploiting Nigerians to enrich a few oil marketers. National President of the NLC, Ayuba Wabba, who accused the Federal Government of complicity in the price increase, called for immediate review of the action. Wabba made the demand yesterday in Jalingo, Taraba State while answering questions from journalists shortly after paying a condolence visit to the family of the late chairman of the state chapter of the NLC, Peter Gambo. “It is sad that the government at the national level has been aiding the oil marketers to enrich themselves at the detriment of the entire Nigerian population. The new pump price was not necessary. The price of crude oil in the international markets, which is the reason given by the oil marketers, has not increased in the recent times.” The NLC boss, who wondered why the Federal Government has continued to inflict pain on the masses, said the current administration seemed to be protecting the oil marketers rather than defending the citizens. “It is really unfortunate because when you leave this very important commodity to oil marketers, saying that the exchange rate has gone up, remember it is one of the issues we elected government to address. And if you say it is because of oil price which has also not gone up in the international markets, then this is double tragedy.” Urging the government to urgently reverse it decision, Wabba said: “They cannot be rubbing Paul to pay Peter. That is what is happening now. They are rubbing Paul to enrich themselves and the oil marketers. It is not acceptable.” The NLC president advocated good governance to address inequality and poverty rate in the country. “We need good governance in Nigeria, that is why all of us need to come together to reject some of these obnoxious policies that are exploiting Nigerians. We will continue to engage the government, and very soon, we will roll out plans of what we will do to ensure that the right things are done.” The late Gambo, whom the Commissioner for Health, Dr. Innocent Vakkai, said died from complications of diabetes, was yesterday laid to rest at his residence in Magami area of Jalingo.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .