Cross River State Governor, Benedict Ayade, yesterday, urged Muslims in the country, especially those resident in the state, to forget their differences and pray for the end of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ayade made the call in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Christian Ita, urging the Muslim faithful to imbibe tolerance, sacrifice and togetherness, as they mark the celebration of this year’s Eid-El-Kabir. “As you celebrate, let your prayers for our country and Cross River State have a positive impact on the overall progress and development of our state, especially at this trying time of COVID-19 pandemic, which has adversely affected the state’s economy.” He urged the Muslims to pray for the unity of the country and emulate Prophet Mohammed, who in spite of his predicaments sacrificed a lot to fulfill Allah’s commandment and constituted authority. In Edo, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the September 19 Governorship election,  Osagie Ize-Iyamu, felicitated with Muslims in the state and the country on Eid-el-Kabir celebration. In a statement in Benin City, he said the celebration should be marked by rededication to faith and complete submission to the will of God Almighty. “I felicitate with our Muslim faithful in Edo State and the world as they celebrate the Eid-ul-Adha. It is a celebration that ultimately, through reflection and rededication, enables the Islamic faithful to increase their faith and get closer to Allah,” he said. Meanwhile, the Akwa Ibom State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) had deployed no fewer than 1, 200 officers to ensure a hitch-free sallah celebration in the state. The state’s Commandant of the Corps, Samuel Fadeyi, disclosed this in a statement issued yesterday in Uyo, saying the deployment to Mosques, borders, recreation centres and other strategic areas across the state was to ensure a hitch-free Sallah. He added that apart from surveillance and general security duties, the personnel would enforce compliance to COVID-19 safety protocols. Fadeyi said the deployment became necessary to beef up security with a view to forestalling breakdown of law and order in the state. “In addition to surveillance and general security duties, the personnel will ensure and enforce compliance of safety protocols as ordered by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to curtail the spread of corona virus, especially social distancing and use of facemasks in the public,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .