Young sad black couple.Upset man being ignored by partner at home in the living room.American african men arguing with his stylish girlfriend, who is sitting on sofa couch next to him.Blurred. It is not easy to pinpoint why most marriages end because no two marriages end in the same way. There are however indicators that can signify that your marriage is about to come to an end if they are not fixed quickly. Listed in this article are common signs that can give you heads up that all is not going well in your marriage. Feeling or Expressing Contempt Toward Your Spouse.
It is perfectly normal to have disagreements in a relationship because let’s face it, every couple fights. In fact, most people say things they don’t mean in the heat of anger but when there is legitimate bile behind the berating, it’s a problem.  Contempt could come in the form of mocking your partner, calling him/her names, eye rolling, hostile humour, hurtful sarcasm, sneering in disgust, among many others. Your marriage is likely to go downhill when you see your partner as someone unworthy of your respect. Constantly Criticising One Another 
We all need a little constructive criticism as it can be helpful in just about any aspect of our life. This criticism only works when it comes with a balance but you need to understand that there is a problem when you are criticising more than you are complimenting each other. Defensive Around One Another
It is a bad sign if you can’t go about freely in your home without having your guards up, This insinuates you are waiting to be attacked any moment and responding with defensiveness to your spouse makes them feel unheard and unconnected and sets up a cycle of escalation that can ultimately destroy the relationship. One Or Both Lose Interest In Sex
A healthy relationship has a good sex drive between a couple as physical intimacy on a regular basis helps to make a couple fonder of one another. When you or your partner find yourself depending more on porn rather than actual sex with your partner, you need to understand that things are going downhill. Thinking of Other Potential Relationships
You are at a really bad place in your marriage if you already find yourself choosing a replacement for your partner. Yes, we all get attracted to others even though we are in a relationship but encouraging these thoughts and choosing to act on it is a sign you are shaking off some of the bonds of your marriage, and puts you on a very slippery slope. Stonewalling/Shutting Down/Refusing to Talk
Outright silence or withdrawal is always a bad sign, especially if one partner is genuinely trying to fix all that is wrong with the marriage. Stonewalling is bad omen. It means that someone has ceased putting effort into fixing things and a lack of effort only means things will surely get worse. The stonewaller might actually physically leave or just completely shut down. Stonewalling conveys disapproval, icy distance, separation, disconnection, and/or smugness. 