Jidenna in the video It is no longer news that Nigerian-American rapper, Jidenna Theodore Mobisson, better known as Jidenna artistry has always been tied to his ancestral roots. The Classic Man singer finds fulfillment in seeking Nigeria, and finding it in music. The meaning of his name ‘Hold onto the father’ lends divine perspective to his artistic interests. Perhaps, the insatiable thirst for Nigeria. His new project, Black Magic Hour, the first track from an upcoming compilation project, African on All Sides by Bullish Recordings, is a celebratory ode to ancestral ties. In the new song, Jidenna brings to fore elements of spirituality that make him who he is, and he accompanied this soul searching and identity leaning track with an abstract and grimy video that speaks to his truth. Like his grandfather, who was an enemy of the colonial masters because of his superior spiritual power and intelligence, Jidenna in the Wesley Walker and Sam Pressman directed video defies normalcy, as he is seen floating in the air while he journey to find an ancestral leader, who then gives him a fresh perspective on life. In the visuals, viewers follow The Chief crooner’s journey after a chance meeting with an ancestral spirit, turning his life upside down in the process. “Cannot kill it man, it’s still in me…I can feel it, I can feel in me…And the spirit is revealing me, black magic hour,” he spits. He continues: “I think in these times, the song becomes important because what I’m really speaking to is centralising our power in a way that we channel our economic worth and we channel our spiritual worth into our lifestyle. “I don’t believe that we can have the economic progress that we need to empower communities without the spiritual progression. And if we do not focus there, we will never see our worth in our bodies if we don’t see our worth in our spirit,” he said of the track in a statement. His style, a curious blend of African and European prints, has earned him many admirers. His insistent grasp of the culture of his motherland is reflected in the album, its Sahari-esque drum patterns and wild horns and African wise sayings. “I’ve always toyed with the idea of creating a kind of sound highway across the Atlantic Ocean with my music. I think it’s so important for the diaspora to feel connected. It is like a road trip across our various experiences.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .