Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, who tested positive for COVID-19 recently, has declared that there was no vacuum in the governance of the state, foreclosing the possibilities of handing over to his deputy, Agboola Ajayi. This is as the state government has allayed fears of residents over the increasing cases of Coronavirus in the state, assuring that efforts were in top gear to win the battle against the virus. Akeredolu had tested positive for COVID-19 last Tuesday. He thereafter went into isolation for treatment and directed his cabinet members and other aides to go for testing. The development caused mixed feelings across the state, especially after the death of the state Commissioner for Health and Chairman of Inter-ministerial Committee Against COVID-19, Dr Wahab Adegbenro, was announced last Thursday. But the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, at a press briefing in Akure, yesterday, said the governor would not hand over the running of government to Ajayi. Ajayi has resigned from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to contest the upcoming governorship election on the platform of the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ojogo said some people were playing politics with the unfortunate turn of events in the state. He, however, lauded those who have been sympathising with the state government on the death of the commissioner and situation of the governor. He said: “We are particularly delighted by the show of sportsmanship. We will not be deterred in our fight against COVID-19. What has happened has further challenged us to do more than we have ever done before, if not for anything to honour the memory of the departed general. “The man we relied upon in this battle is no more. Those people who were cynical about COVID-19 now believe it is real. I will advise them to go for test so as to know their status.” Ojogo said government activities were not grounded in the state, insisting that Akeredolu was ruling effectively from isolation. He accused Ajayi of betraying the governor, saying Akeredolu could not trust him. “You don’t rock a boat that has taken you across the ocean. He has exhibited mindless level of treachery,” Ojogo said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .