 Ibrahim Magu  The anti-graft agency boss is facing allegations against him by the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. The panel, which began sitting three weeks ago, The Guardian learnt, only succeeded in dragging the EFCC boss before it on Monday after he was whisked in a Gestapo style by DSS operatives in the central area of Abuja. The panel members were noticed at the State House Conference Centre (Banquet Hall), venue of the interrogation by noon on Tuesday with frenetic activity ongoing in the premises at press time 1: 33pm. A convoy of about four vehicles, which appeared to be carrying a VIP had driven into the premises, but it could not be immediately established whether Magu was the dignitary being conveyed. The convoy had a Peugeot sedan sandwiched by two Toyota Hilux vans occupied by security personnel who apparently provided cover for the lead car. After a brief vetting by the DSS officials at the gate, the convoy was waved on to join the panel meeting atop the Banquet Hall. Again, access was on Tuesday denied authorized persons by security details at the entrance to the area. A similar situation transpired on Monday when sitting began in earnest. IT was gathered that Monday’s incident, which led to the alleged “arrest” of Magu on the street, was consequent upon the EFCC boss’ reluctance to respond to the panel’s several invitations officially extended to him. Notwithstanding, the panel was said to have treated the EFCC’s acting chairman with his due respect by letting him keep and have access to his phones, allowing him to go for prayers by himself as well as served dinner while still being quizzed by the members. It was also learnt that while Magu had resisted attempts to get him into a car at the end of Monday’s sitting rather than the back of a pickup truck, which he opted for, he had also warned his handlers to remember that he was still a commissioner of police and must be treated as such. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .