To ensure proper implementation 9f the new National Broadcasting Code a, Coalition of Civil Society for Citizen’s Action against Covid-19, has urged for stakeholders participation in the implementation of code which according to them will rebrand the nation’s broadcast industry. Commending the ongoing reform in the broadcasting sector with the new National Broadcasting Code, the National Coordinator of the group Amb. Splendour Agbonkpolor, called on the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission, NBC, to organise forums for stakeholders to make recommendations to strengthen the code so it will not frustrate the ongoing investments in the broadcasting sector. “We advocate for more engagements by stakeholders in the implementation of the new code which seeks to give the Nigerian government more control over broadcasting platforms not yet under government control like internet TV and radio,” Agbonkpolor said in a statement on Wednesday. The statement reads further: “Having read some of the strong and salient oppositions from some concerned stakeholders on some sections of the code that tend to break the monopoly currently enjoyed by some foreign broadcasting stations and allow local contents development in our media operations, we call on the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission to organise forums for stakeholders to make recommendations to strengthen the code so it won’t frustrate the ongoing investments in the broadcasting sector. “The NBC new code makes it mandatory for broadcast media to ensure that 70% of their productions are local content base, thereby creating an avenue to stimulate local investors in the content development sector and giving more opportunities to local producers and filmmakers. This is a welcome development and a big investment opportunity to NOLLYWOOD. “With the advent of digital technology, the broadcasting sector has been undergoing significant technological and structural changes which have given Nigerian’ consumers access to a great variety of communications and media services. “This new code should push the full implementation of the much talked about Digital Switch Over and stimulate citizen’s response and participation in broadcasting.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .