The National Assembly Service Commission (NASC) Thursday queried the embattled clerk to the National Assembly, Mr Mohammed Sani-Omolori, for “gross insubordination to a constituted authority”. The commission had asked the clerk and 150 other management staff to proceed on retirement having reached the retirement period of 35 years of service. Sani-Omolori, who joined the National Assembly Service in 1985, is due for retirement. But he remained in service following the alteration of retirement age and length of service for staff members. The 8th National Assembly had, through a resolution, amended the conditions of service, raising the retirement period for staff from 35 to 40 years in service while retirement age was upgraded from 60 to 65 years. Mr Sani-Omolori however, issued a statement Wednesday, saying that the Commission lacks the powers to set aside the Revised Conditions of Service as passed by the 8th National Assembly. The Executive Chairman of the Commission, Ahmed Kadi Amshi, in a query to Sani-Omolori, said the clerk has no authority to dictate anything to it as an employee. He said his press statement was considered by the Commission as gross disobedience to a constituted authority. Amshi gave Sani-Omolori 24 hours to explain to the Commission as to why disciplinary action would not be taken against him. The query, dated July 16, 2020, reads: “The attention of the National Assembly Service Commission was drawn to a Press Release titled: “Retirement age for staff of the National Assembly Service is 40 years of Service or 65 years of Age, whichever comes first” dated 15th July, 2020 and signed by M.A Sani-Omolori, Clerk to the National Assembly. “As you are very much aware, the Clerk to the National Assembly is an employee of the National Assembly Service Commission, vide Section 6(1)b of the National Assembly Service Act, 2014 (As amended). “The Clerk to the National Assembly has no authority whatsoever to dictate anything to the Commission. You Press Release is considered by the Commission as a gross insubordination to a constituted authority. “You are, by this letter, requested to explain to the Commission within twenty four (24) hours as to why disciplinary action will not be taken against you as per the provision of Section 6(2)b of the National Assembly Service Act, 2014 (As Amended) for this gross insubordination.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .