An ex-convict, Adeniyi Ajayi, notorious for robbing and raping his victims, has begged the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, to kill him instead of charging him to court. Ajayi, also known as Ogologo, who was arrested by operatives of the command’s Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), said he did not want to return to the correctional centre because he would come back worse. The 27-year-old suspect, who operates as a one-man squad, said his previous experience at the correctional centre made him graduate from pickpocketing to armed robbery. The suspect, who was paraded at the Police Command Headquarters in Ikeja yesterday, said he had given up on himself. Ajayi, who is alleged to have raped eight women, said: “I go to rob people at night, and I go alone. I operate with torchlight and knife, which I use to scare my victims. It is only when a victim tries to prove stubborn that I rape them, to teach them a lesson. I have raped only two ladies, one a wife and the other a house girl. “I just want the police to waste me because I don’t have anything good to give to society. I don’t want them to send me back to the correctional centre. It was my stay at the correctional centre that made me become worse. I only stole a phone when I was sent to the correctional centre, but when I got there, the inmates told me to go into big-time robbery when I regain freedom. “If I had gotten someone to help me when I regained freedom 10 months ago, I wouldn’t have followed their advice. But I didn’t have anyone to help me. So, I went into armed robbery. I went to houses to rob. “I fear that if I go back to correctional centre, the inmates will still poison me to become more hardened. It is obvious I cannot be of any good to the society. I will continue to cause trouble for the police. So, they should just kill me.” Speaking on how the suspect was arrested, Odumosu said he had robbed some female and male staffers of a company on June 16. He said a phone the suspect stole was tracked by operatives and he was arrested in a hotel at Ijora Badia area of the state. The police boss said: “Some female staff and a male worker of a particular company reported at Sabo Police Station that while on duty at the company, Ajayi forcefully gained entrance into the premises. The suspect claimed to be in the company of other members of his gang outside the premises. “He tied the hands and legs of the staff and robbed them of their four phones, two laptops and ATM cards. He sexually harassed the female staff. The suspect was arrested in a hotel at Ijora Badia by SARS operatives. “The stolen phones were recovered from him. It was revealed that the suspect operates alone. He was recently released from prison custody. He equally confessed to a series of robbery and rape he single-handedly committed around Sabo and its environs. “In the cause of investigation, more than eight female survivors affirmed that the suspect had recently robbed and raped them, even in the presence of their husbands and other family members.”
The CP said the suspect would be charged to court soon. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .