The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has warned the political class against inciting mutiny in the armed forces. The Coordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, gave this warning yesterday while reacting to a publication (not The Guardian) captioned ‘Nigeria Needs a Rawlings Now – NDP’. In the said publication, the National Chairman of National Democratic Party (NDP), Chidi Chukwuanyi, said: “The state of corruption in the country calls for the replication of the Ghanaian experience under former President Jerry Rawlings in Nigeria.” Observing that the statement was inciting, Enenche said: “What Chidi Chukwuanyi is calling for is a combination of unpopular acts of insurrection and mutiny, which cannot be taken for granted by the Armed Forces of Nigeria (AFN). “Consequently, I am directed by the high command of the Nigerian military to let the general public know and remind personnel of AFN. All officers and men of the Nigerian military swore an oath of allegiance to the civil authority of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and to protect the constitution. This translates to unalloyed loyalty to the President and Commander-in-Chief, and full subordination to the civil authorities.” According to him, the Nigerian military is in consonance with the global best practices, and cannot be misguided by any individual or group. Meanwhile, former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Martins Agwai, is optimistic that the final year cadets of the 67 Regular Course of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) will confront Boko Haram and banditry in the country. The cadets have just concluded the three-week practical special warfare training tagged ‘Exercise Camp Highland’. The final inauguration, which involves the firing of live ammunition of various weapons of combative level, was designed to expose the officer cadets to real war situations. Speaking at the end of the three-week training at Cassia in Kaduna State at the weekend, Agwai charged the cadets to be patriotic and courageous, as they would soon be joining their colleagues in the field to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the nation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .