Police recovers arms, arrest car robbers in Borno The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, has condoled the families of the seven officers attached to the Special Forces Unit (SFU) who died in a motor accident on Sunday on their way to Katsina State. He described the deceased as ‘Heroes of Peace’. Represented by the Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba, the IGP said yesterday that the unfortunate incident, which involved a Toyota Hummer Bus conveying 18 personnel of the unit, occurred at Jaji town along Kaduna/Zaria Road. The deceased were part of additional deployment recently by the force to boost the ongoing fight against bandits in Katsina.  Adamu, who described the incident as a huge loss to the force, noted that the incident was one of the unfortunate sacrifices that officers often make in the line of duty. “A team of Police Medical Personnel has been dispatched to Kaduna where 11 officers that survived the accident are receiving medical attention. Three of the deceased officers have been buried according to Islamic rites, while the remains of the other four are in a morgue. “The IGP has directed the Police Accounts and Budget Department to ensure the immediate payment of the burial expenses, benefits and other entitlements to the families of the deceased officers,” Mba said. MEANWHILE, the Borno State Police Command has recovered a cache of arms after a Boko Haram ambush on Monday evening along Maiduguri/Damaturu road. The recovered arms include eight AK-47 rifles, anti-aircraft guns, multipurpose machine guns and magazines with 57 rounds of ammunition, and 270 rounds of ammunition. While announcing the recoveries yesterday in Maiduguri, the Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Aliyu, said: “Our men got hint of an attack in Auno (on Monday) by 4.20pm along Maiduguri/Damaturu road. “On reaching the scene, they saw an upturned Hilux vehicle on fire with a corpse not in uniform,” he said, noting that the body was suspected to be that of a Boko Haram insurgent.Beside recovery of arms, he said that four suspected vehicle snatchers were also arrested in Maiduguri metropolis.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .