 Publisher of The Guardian, Lady Maiden Alex-Ibru (second left), Mr. Asue Ighodalo (left) and family members during the posthumous 40th    birthday remembrance service in honour of the late Ibidunni Amoke Ighodalo in Lagos… on Sunday  In attendance were wife of Edo State Governor, Mrs Betsy Obaseki; chairman, Sterling Bank, Asue Ighodalo; and Chairman/Publisher of The Guardian Newspapers, Lady Maiden Alex-Ibru, among others. Ibidunni was remembered and commended for the short but fruitful, selfless and impactful life she lived. She would be remembered for, among her numerous humanitarian activities, her foundation’s Project 40at40, though founded in 2016, but intended to be formally launched on her 40th birthday. The project seeks to transform the lives of 40 families who have been married for five years, but are yet to have a child, with medical reproductive intervention. According to the Executive Secretary of the foundation, Adedayo Richard, the portal for application for the initiative opened at 7:00p.m. on Sunday.Husband of the deceased, Pastor Ituah Ighodalo, described Ibidunni as an uncommon wife who organised his life, the home and left a legacy that has outlived her. In an emotion-laden voice, he showered praises on his departed wife who firmly stood by him during the 17 years of marriage that was full of ups and downs. The officiating minister at the service, Assistant Senior Pastor, Trinity House, Niyi Akenzua, described Ibidunni’s short life as a successful one, who fulfilled her destiny and was able to do much more than those who lived older. “She was a goal getter, industrious, who lived her life as if she was in a hurry and touched many lives before she clocked 40 and also assisted to build isolation centres in some parts of the country to fight COVID-19.” Pastor Wale Adefarasin, in his goodwill message, described Ibidunni as a woman of passion who would always be remembered by the 40 women who would benefit from her foundation when they carry their babies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .