FILE PHOTO: African Development Bank (AfDB) President Akinwumi Adesina speaks during an interview with Reuters in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania August 17, 2019. Picture was taken August 17, 2019. REUTERS/Emmanuel Herman Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama has described Dr Akinwunmi Adesina as the most successful President of the African Development Bank (AfDB) going by the economic growth and achievements recorded by the bank during his tenure. Onyeama made this known when he appeared on the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) forum in Abuja, as he reiterated Nigeria’s support for Adesina’s 2nd term bid as AfDB’s President. He said that Nigeria was also engaging with non-regional shareholders to focus on the economic interest of the bank to retain Adesina, which would be a “win win” situation for all parties. “The AfDB has actually been doing extremely well, it is doing very well in all the rankings. The economic base of the bank has grown enormously. “So, looking at all the economic, the metrics and indices, the President has been a huge success, possibly one of the successful presidents AfDB has had. “There is this issue and the government has come out, Mr President has come out to support the President Adesina and so, we are also engaging robustly with the members of the AfDB. “And the non regional’s, the non-African countries that are also shareholders to get them to see that it is in the interest of Africa, it is in the interest of the shareholders to keep fate with the current President. “Because it has been a win win for all the shareholders and the bank is doing very well,” he said. NAN reports that President Muhammadu Buhari has pledged to support Adesina’s bid to get re-elected as AfDB’s President just as he did in 2015. Buhari said he would work with all leaders and stakeholders to ensure Adesina was re-elected based on the records of his achievements during his first term. Adesina has, however, denied the 16 allegations raised against him, saying, they were without facts and evidences. Akinwuni assumed office as AfDB’s President on Sept. 1, 2015, his term as President would officially elapse on Aug. 31. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .