Two corps members die, four bag extension Three health workers have lost their lives since the beginning of banditry and related security challenges in Katsina State. The Chairman, Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria in the state, Munnir Suleiman, yesterday stated that another health worker, Jamilu Ibrahim, 30, who was abducted by bandits three years ago, had not been found. He lamented that since Ibrahim’s kidnap, his parents had paid about N10 million as ransom to his abductors. According to Suleiman, the victim’s parents have become tired of the whole issue and are no longer willing to offer more money after spending so much for his release, to no avail. He, therefore, called on the state government and security agencies in the state to assist in rescuing the abducted health worker. He added that seven health workers from across the state were kidnapped and released at various times after ransom was paid. Calling on the state government to provide additional security around health facilities, especially for those in the rural areas, to enable them carry out their responsibilities, he urged health workers not to be discouraged by the security challenges, but to exercise caution in their line of duty. MEANWHILE, two National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members in the state have lost their lives, while two others will repeat the service year for absconding. This is in addition to two other corps members whose service year extended. Spokesperson of NYSC in the state, Mr. Alex Obemeata, stated yesterday that two corps members from the outgone 2019 Batch B Stream 2 absconded. According to him, their fate was made known by the NYSC coordinator in the state, Mr. Ahidjo Yahaya, during his monitoring tour of outgoing corps members yesterday. The statement added that Yahaya, who spoke through the Deputy Director, Relocation and Deployment, Mr. Olaisebekan Taiwo, was silent on what led to the death of the two corps members. The Guardian learnt that 1,328 corps members of the 2019 Batch B Stream 2 in the state were successfully discharged yesterday. Ahidjo advised the corps members to leverage the scheme’s skills acquisition programme, which they participated in during the service year, and establish themselves.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .