Kim Kardashian Focused On Getting Kanye West Better Amid Divorce Rumour Kim Kardashian is trying to get her husband Kanye West better after he shared a Tweet stating that he was trying to divorce the reality TV personality. The two according to The Sun are constantly talking with Kim focused on how he will get better. The 43-year-old rapper, who allegedly suffers from bipolar disorder, and wife, 39, are currently living apart with the Stronger hitmaker staying in his Wyoming ranch after he made bombshell claims that he has been trying to divorce the reality TV star for years. Despite Kanye flooding his Twitter feed with scathing attacks on Kim and her family, which included him threatening to go to war against Kim’s mum Kris Jenner, before calling her “Kris Jong-Un”,  Kim is on a mission to get him better as reported by The Mirror. Kanye, who is hoping to be elected as the next president of America in November, has been worrying fans, over the past weeks, by penning and posting a number of erratic messages on Twitter. One included him claiming that his wife Kim tried to get doctors to lock him up amid fears he’s in the middle of a serious bi-polar episode. In another of his now-deleted tweets, the Yeezy brand owner claimed that he has been trying to end his marriage with reality TV star Kim after she met with musician Meek Mill at a hotel to discuss prison reform. The online rant came after the musician and designer reportedly caused an uproar in the Kardashian family when he dropped the bombshell his wife considered aborting North during his presidential rally last weekend. Kim finally spoke out on Wednesday and asked for compassion as her husband battles his mental health issues. They have been a power couple on the showbiz circuit for years. Earlier this month she flew out to join him in the Dominican Republic because of her worries but had to leave to get back to their children. Also, Justin Bieber has paid a visit to Kanye West’s ranch in Wyoming on Friday in order to spend some quality time with the 43-year-old rapper. The two have been married for six years since 2014. They have four children: North, seven, Saint, four, Chicago, two, and Psalm, one.