The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Richard Adeniyi Adebayo, has inaugurated a campaign strategy team for Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is vying for the post of the next Director-General of the World Trade Organization WTO. Adebayo while inaugurating the team, yesterday, in Abuja said the setting up of a committee is to ensure that the Nigerian candidate emerges as the Director-General of the organisation. The Minister noted that the decision of President Muhammadu  Buhari to nominate Dr. Ngozi Okonjo–Iweala as Nigeria’s candidate for the position of Director-General of WTO was done in good faith, given the overriding consideration of the need to host Africa’s chance and for the promotion of gender mainstreaming at the world’s top trade position. He expressed optimism that she would emerge as the next Director-General of WTO, based on her capabilities and wealth of experience at the highest level of the World Bank as a Development Economist, Diplomat and one of Africa’s most trusted technocrats.
 
Adebayo said, “An eminently qualified candidate in the position of Dr. Ngozi Okonjo Iweala with proven leadership, bold reformer, a skillful negotiator with abilities to broker numerous agreements that would promote fair trade should be selected for the position of the Director-General of the WTO; I am confident that Dr. Okonjo – Iweala possesses the qualities to lead the most important global multilateral body”. He, therefore, charged the team to develop a winning strategy for the candidate and also called on stakeholders, media, public, private and trading partners to give necessary support that she requires to emerge as the WTO Director-General for the term 2021 – 2025. “My belief is that the team will intensify its level of dedication overtime to ensure that we achieve success,” he stated. The Minister of State, Mariam Yalwaji Katagum, who is the team leader of the campaign strategy team gave an assurance of the full commitment of members of the team to deliver on its mandate, “We must all get to work as a team in the most strategic and professional manner to deliver on this important assignment in line with the terms of reference”, she stated. Katagum also expressed confidence that Okonjo–Iweala, would surely emerge as the next Director-General of WTO considering her pedigree and commitment in ensuring sustainable development and economic growth not only for Africa but the world at large. The campaign strategy team comprised of officials of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Representatives of the Office of the Chief of Staff to the President, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Federal Ministry of Finance, Nigerian Ambassador to ECOWAS and African Union as well as Geneva-based officials. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .