August Alsina And Jada Pinkett Following the Red Table Talk between Jada Pinkett and her husband, Will Smith, where she addressed the issue of past romance between herself and August Alsina– the romance she refers to as an entanglement between the duo- the 27-year-old singer took to social media to express his feelings. In a tweet, he wrote: Imagine not knowing how to mind the business that pays you. I catch all the Subliminals. (Not just about today) & you can call me whatever you like, Mess is constantly inserting yourself in topics you have nun to do w/. Go play w/ ya MAMMY! Not me! If you have something to say, say it w/ ya CHEST kids. It’s always very perplexing cause I real deal be showing people genuine love. Whole time that envy eating ya lil heart. Anyway, NEXT!! This tweet was however meant for Keke Palmer who in a tweet refuted the claim that she had a relationship with Alsina. She tweeted: Yes girl. August was never my man lol. That’s why you are still reaching to this day to figure out nothing. The tweet was a reply to August’s fan who questioned a tweet she had written. The tweet suggested that August should have kept things private. The theme is boundaries. Everybody doesn’t need to know your business, that’s not fake it’s honoring one’s privacy. When one of August’s follower suggested the singer has decided to attack any female that questions him, August replied: Nah, I’m literally not. I actually fucked w/ KeKe. So to see her covertly speaking subliminal shade around my name over the past week Is deeply perplex. I don’t and never have had a problem w/ the girl. It’s always been Virgo love! So to see that is a mind fuck to me. The tweets between these two have generated different reactions from their fans. Some who think August is overreacting while some are of the opinion that Keke Palmer should not have posted her tweets. In the latest episode of Red Table Talk, Pinkett Smith together with her movie star husband had a candid conversation surrounding the recent headlines about her affair with Alsina. The 48-year-old actress admitted that her relationship with the singer started about four-and-a-half years ago while she and Smith were separated. I was in a lot of pain and I was very broken. Now in the process of that relationship, I definitely realized that you can’t find happiness outside of yourself. Pinkett Smith said her relationship with Alsina allowed her to confront her own “emotional immaturity” and insecurity, and do some “deep healing.” She added that her romance with Alsina ended after the singer stopped all communication with her. “Aug and I haven’t talked in so long,” the actress explained.