Here are the latest developments in the coronavirus crisis: – Nearly 600,000 deaths -The pandemic has killed at least 596,742 people worldwide since it surfaced in China late last year and more than 14 million have been infected, according to an AFP tally at 1100 GMT on Saturday based on official sources. The United States has the most deaths with 139,266. It is followed by Brazil with 77,851, Britain with 45,119, Mexico with 38,310, and Italy with 35,028. – EU talks, day two -EU leaders are set to meet again in Brussels, hoping to overcome divisions about a planned 750-billion-euro ($857 billion) stimulus package. The leaders met in person on Friday for the first time in five months but 12 hours of haggling failed to yield a result after running into opposition from “frugal” countries led by the Netherlands and Austria. – Staying home in Barcelona -Four million people in Spain’s second city and tourist hotspot are urged to stay home unless absolutely necessary. Barcelona’s cinemas, theatre and nightclubs have shut and gatherings of more than 10 people are banned. – G20 seeks global recovery -G20 finance ministers and central bankers hold virtual talks, hosted by Saudi Arabia, aimed at spurring global economic recovery from a coronavirus-triggered recession amid growing calls to widen debt relief for crisis-hit poor countries. – Greece toughens measures -Wearing face masks in supermarkets is now mandatory in Greece, and local outdoor festivals are banned until the end of July. The country’s migration ministry also announces another extension of a lockdown on Greece’s packed migrant camps, which began on March 21 and is now extended till August 2. – Lifting in Buenos Aires -Argentina’s government says it will relax containment measures in the capital despite continued high infection rates. From Monday, non-essential businesses, industry and certain professional activities can restart, and citizens will be allowed to go outside for sport and to visit places of worship. – Bollywood star in hospital -Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, a Bollywood star and former Miss World, has been admitted to a Mumbai hospital along with her eight-year-old daughter, media reports say, nearly a week after they were revealed to have tested positive for the virus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .