• Agrees With Four Countries To Consider New Date For WAEC
• Gives Proprietors July 29 Ultimatum To Meet Specific Guidelines The Federal Government has given schools owners July 29, this year to meet the safety protocols recommended by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) towards the reopening of schools at a date to be announced in due course. Minister of State for Education, Mr. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who stated this yesterday in his office in Abuja, disclosed that the federal government has agreed with four West African countries on a new date for the suspended West African Examinations Council (WAEC). He noted that the ministry, having consulted widely, has, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Health, NCDC and Education in Emergencies Working Group, developed and circulated guidelines for the reopening of schools and charged school owners to prepare and comply with the guidelines. Nwajiuba said schools are to undertake self-assessment and send feedback to state ministries of Education not later than July 29, this year, adding: “Thereafter, consultations with relevant stakeholders will be held to review the situation and decide on a specific date for reopening or otherwise. “Having taken the painful, but necessary decision not to reopen schools without necessary preparations to ensure the safety of students and teachers, the Federal Ministry of Education has continued consultations with stakeholders and a mechanism to assess and monitor compliance shall be put in place.” He stated that since Tuesday last week, “we have consulted widely with stakeholders in the sector, including commissioners for Education in all the states of the federation; Association of Private School Owners of Nigeria (APSON); National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS); Provosts of Colleges of Education; Rectors of polytechnics; Vice Chancellors of universities; some state governors and development partners. “We appreciate the concern shown by all stakeholders and note the divergent views expressed on the matter. Parents should be rest assured that the safety of our students and teachers is paramount, as we work assiduously towards speedy reopening of our schools for the exit classes to take external examinations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .