Anambra South yesterday insisted it was its turn to produce the next governor of the state next year. The three senatorial zones in the state have been locked in battle to produce Governor Willie Obiano’s successor in the 2021 governorship poll. Of the three zones, only Anambra  South has yet to produce the chief executive of the state for more than one term. With Anambra Central, which produced Peter Obi as governor,  and Anambra North, which fielded Obiano,   allegedly against the zoning of the 2021  governorship to  Anambra South,  the Deputy Chairman of Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council, His Majesty Igwe  Emmanuel Nnabuife, told  The Guardian in an exclusive interview that there was an agreement in 2017 for power shift to the south. He claimed former Governor Chukwuemeka Ezeife, traditional rulers from the three senatorial zones, the Emeka Anyaoku-led Anambra Elders Advisory Council, Anambra State Association of Town Unions,  ex-Chief Judge, Senator Ben  Obi,  and ex-Speaker of the state House of Assembly attended the meeting where the decision was taken. The  Chairman of Political Committee,  Anambra South Traditional Rulers Forum, said: “It is imperative to note that we agreed that Peter Obi, having enjoyed an eight-year tenure, and Willie Obiano enjoying two terms,   it was agreed that Anambra South  should produce the next governor. “This position was subsequently  adopted by Anyaoku-led Anambra Elders Advisory Council, the state chapter of Ohanaeze Ndigbo,  ASATU, Anambra State Markets Amalgamated  Traders Association and  other stakeholders.” He added, “The traditional rulers in their zonal meetings have all supported  the zoning arrangement as agreed and it is the turn of Anambra South.” Meanwhile,  Great Anambra Forum has backed Anambra South  for the 2021 governorship. The group faulted an opinion poll conducted by   Media Awareness and Development Advocacy Forum stating  that zoning was  unpopular in the state. ‘’Zoning is more as an elitist strategy to negotiate continued participation in the political process and access to the state wealth at the expense of good governance and creative ideas to drive socio-political, economic and cultural potential of Anambra State,”  MADAF stated in its report. But GAFORUM’s facilitator, Fab Ozoigbo,  said  at an event where the group distributed 5, 000 Personal Protective Equipment and face masks  to  help  fight the spread of COVID-19 in the state, many were in favour of power shifting to Anambra South. According to him,  the state Chairman of  the Christian Association of Nigeria, Rev. Dr. John Ndubuisi, and other clerics are in support of power rotation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .