Barcelona Academy have put their facilities in shape ready for when the Federal Government will announce the resumption of sporting activities in the country, the promoters have said.
 
The academy, managed by the Blaugrana Group Nigeria, is one of the few grassroots soccer institutions recognised by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Speaking after inspecting the academy’s facilities, Blaugrana Group’s Communications, Development and Growth Manager, Ms. Abibatu Abudu Ajayi, said the institution is ready for the possible kick off of a new football season in September as announced by the NFF. She added, “We have used the usual long vacation period to upgrade our facilities, where there is such need, to be at par with the FC Barcelona’s recommended standard and maintain our elitist and excellent capabilities, service and standard. “Our facilities in Surulere, Lekki, Gbagada and Lagos Island are first class and meet world standard. For the benefit of all stakeholders, we ensure that we keep improving on what we have and to remain at the top. “A few weeks ago, the Group Chairman took a tour of all the existing facilities and even prospective locations in Ikeja, to work out a possible way of reaching out to children in that axis. We already plan to expand the Group’s school project, with the idea of helping gifted young children, whose parents may not have the capacity, to actualise their football dreams.” She revealed that apart from the facilities, the group is also mindful of the quality of coaches in the academy, adding that they strive to ensure that their trainers are abreast with the latest systems and innovations in the game. Also speaking on the coaches’ readiness for the resumption of activities, a member of the technical team, Ahmed Hadi, said the academy has experienced and well honed personnel, who are seen as the model for other academies. “The technical team, which is the engine of the Academy, is always ready. Even when the academy is on break, we work tirelessly in readiness for the children’s return. “Our training is periodic, timely and highly certified. Periodically, highly recommended and experienced coaches with sound technical knowledge are brought in to train our crew. Many of us have been privileged to travel to Barcelona, Spain and sit side by side with first class coaches from top league football clubs across the world. We are very proud and grateful to Blaugrana Sports Group for this kind of opportunity.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .