Nigeria’s House of Representatives has given the minister of Niger Delta Affairs Godswill Akpabio 48-hours to name the National Assembly members involved in the contracts awarded by Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The House of Reps committee probing the financial dealings and contracts in the NDDC also asked Akpabio to publish names, contracts, dates and amount of contracts awarded to members of the 9th National Assembly. Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila noted that Akpabio must reveal the names of the lawmaker within 48-hours or risk the wrath of the House. “I am giving the minister 24 to 48 hours to publish the names, the contracts, the companies, date, amount and the projects,” Gbajabiamila said. “Failing which, this house will bring the full wrath of the house on him. It is important that we set this record straight. “The minister owes it to himself, to the committee, to people of Niger Delta, and the country to publish it. I will reserve my judgment. The minister came there to play games, but we do not play games here.” Akpabio on Monday denied awarding a single contract since he assumed office and indicted members of the National Assembly in the ongoing probe of the NDDC. “I have never approved a single contract not even one kilometre for the NDDC,” Akpabio said while responding to questions by the House of Representatives committee probing the financial misappropriation at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). “Most of the contracts in NDDC are given out to the members of the National Assembly. If you don’t know, please ask the two chairmen,” Akpabio alleged. Akpabio, however, said that the contracts were not given to the committee chairman, Olubunmi Tunji-Ojo. “I don’t think the NDDC has given any contract directly to Honorable Ojo,” Akpabio said. The House of Reps began hearing of persons involved in the NDDC N41 billion contract scandal on Monday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .