Ebuka, Don Jazzy Emerge As Brand Ambassadors With the countdown to the season five premiere of Africa’s popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija officially on, MultiChoice Nigeria has revealed that this season’s winner will walk away with a whopping N85m grand prize. The grand prize, which includes a N30m cash prize, makes this season’s winnings the biggest since its debut back in 2006 and highest prize for reality TV show on the continent. Meanwhile, the organisers have appointed the show host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and popular muisc producer Don Jazzy as Brand Ambassadors for season five.
Chief Executive Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, John Ugbe said, “The fifth season of BBNaija marks a major milestone in the reality TV series. We are making this season significant by not only increasing the winnings, but by also implementing other creative and innovative ways to ensure the show lives up to the premium entertainment especially during the current pandemic.” The breakdown of the grand prize for BBNaija season five includes a N30m cash prize; a two-bedroom apartment courtesy Revolution Plus; a top of the range SUV from Nigerian automaker, Innoson Motors; a trip to Dublin courtesy Guinness; home appliances courtesy Scanfrost; a trip to Dubai packaged by Travelbeta; a year’s supply of Indomie noodles, Munch it and Colgate toothpaste; a year’s supply of Pepsi, a branded chiller and a trip to watch the UEFA Champions League finale; and a brand new Oppo mobile smartphone. Meanwhile, premium online entertainment provider, Betway, is excited to announce the brand’s sponsorship of season 5 of Nigeria’s favourite reality TV show, Big Brother Naija. Betway has continued to establish itself as the premier online betting platform in Africa, and, through the Big Brother Naija show, will continue to engage and connect with millions of Nigerians and Africans while bringing added excitement to both the contestants and the viewers. Through the partnership, Betway will promote a spirit of competition among those living in the house, as well as viewers of the show. Chief Executive Officer of MultiChoice Nigeria, Mr. John Ugbe said: “As an established brand in its competitive industry, Betway is a right fit for BBNaija and we are excited to have them on board this season. We believe this partnership will bring about an increase in engagement and excitement for fans of the reality TV show.” “Betway is excited to be part of Big Brother Naija season five. The collaboration with Big Brother Naija presents us with the opportunity to engage and connect with Nigerians through our amazing range of sports betting and online games. We believe our offerings will bring added excitement to both the contestants and the viewers at home,” said Betway Country Manager, Lere Awokoya. The leading provider of first-class online entertainment will add to the thrill through the introduction of the weekly Betway Arena Games, as well as a variety of promotions – all of which give viewers the chance to walk away with cash, kitchen appliances, tech prizes and more. BBNaija season 5 will be broadcast live and 24/7 on DStv channel 198 and GOtv Max and Jolli packages on channel 29. DStv viewers can also follow the drama this season with the DStv Now app on a smartphone, tablet or laptop. DStv customers, who would like to opt out of viewing the show can do so by sending “Smart card number [space] BBOUT” to 30333. While GOtv customers can do same by sending “IUC Number [space] BBOUT” to 30333. Additionally, customers can activate the parental control option on their DStv and GOtv decoders for viewers younger than 18 years. In order not to miss a moment of the entertainment on BBNaija season 5, fans are encouraged to sign up on DStv today via www.dstvafrica.com or get GOtv Max or Jolli on www.gotvafrica.com, and download the MyDStv and MyGOtv apps from the app store for more self-service options. Given the prevalence of the COVID-19 pandemic, MultiChoice Nigeria has assured viewers that global best practices, precautions and preventive measures will be followed throughout the show. 