Oyinlaz Production has completed the shooting of another advocacy movie, titled, Sincity. It tells the story of the detrimental effect of substance abuse on young people. In the movie, a drug trafficker is pushed by his mother to take over his father’s business. The supplier is, however, married to a law enforcement agent, who is saddled with the responsibility of keeping the state clean from narcotic users. She is, therefore, put in a tight spot to choose between protecting family and being professional. Directed by Muyiwa Ademola, the movie also features Tope Tedela, who played Rashad, Joke Silva (Adufe), Toyin Abraham (Kimani), Lateef Adedimeji (Brooks), Segun Arinze (Alex) and Sanni Danja (Akintoye). The scriptwriter and producer of the flick, Oyinlola Lazizi, said she holds advocacy movies dear to her heart. “Each time I look around, all I see are troubled minds and they reflect on our day-to-day activities and interactions with one another,” she said. The celebrity counselor who played the role of Fareda, a detective, in the movie, said everything about the shooting was quite challenging, and then the pandemic showed up. “I was frightened and disturbed, I was scared because I thought about everything we have put into it, but also what could happen if I didn’t break the production. “Eventually, I stopped the production after the 18th day when COVID-19 cases started increasing. I wouldn’t risk people’s lives for that. We resumed production after lockdown, but we still couldn’t fly to Kano for its completion, we are currently working to improvise, and Sincity will be done with.” The producer, however, noted that young people are dying of narcotics and psychotropic substances, every day. Hence the major thing is to trace how the substances get to them youths usually through traffickers; the impact of it and what the government should do or can do to help. According to the director, it was quite tasking shooting, as most locations are places where it is difficult to get orderliness. “The crowds were too excited to be controlled. It was draining, it was hectic but it was arty and a beautiful experience too. No good thing comes so easily especially in a system like ours.” Ademola added that advocacy films are a bit different; it is as good as shooting a regular story based on personal experience, someone closer or a concept you imagined with little or no research depending on the concept in question. “You need to do a whole lot of research and be careful with vulgarity. Advocacy films are basically done to increase awareness on an issue, to affect change and to educate the viewers. It is beyond just entertainment; hence this movie meets all the requirements.” The movie is expected to hit the cinemas in the last quarter of this year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .