– Frustrated by Bauchi identity politics Many underlying but knotty factors propelled the immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara’s recent retreat from major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the governing All Progressives Congress (APC). 
 
Some of the issues that compelled the former speaker to shift base revolve around the crisis of identity politics in Bauchi State, his relationship with Governor Bala Mohammed, pressures from the governing party and his search to future political relevance in the state and nation.  The statement by the Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, shortly after the former speaker conferred with the president, seems to back that proposition. Ahmad had, in a post on his Twitter handle, described Dogara’s return to APC as the northern equivalent of Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki’s crossover to PDP.  Marooned, betrayal
BUT despite pressures from the governing APC, one of Dogara’s supporters, Hamisu Naningi, told The Guardian shortly after the news of his defection slipped into public space that they were not happy the way Governor Bala was treating the speaker. Hamisu disclosed that not long after the Supreme Court delivered its final ruling on the governorship election petition filed by the immediate past governor, Mohammed Abubakar, the incumbent started demeaning Dogara.
 
He said that part of the reason they assisted Dogara to work for the electoral victory of Bala Mohammed Kura was that, while in APC, Governor Abubakar favoured outsiders rather than Bauchi people. The PDP stalwart disclosed that signs that the incumbent governor was no longer pleased with Dogara emerged when the governor was selecting his commissioners, stressing that instead of consulting stakeholders, the governor used every opportunity to disrespect them.
 
A serving local government official, who pleaded anonymity, said apart from Dogara, many other PDP stakeholders are not happy with the governor, alleging that the governor was not only misallocating wealth but also favouring his minority Bajari ethnic group.
 
“Imagine a situation where the governor’s son is usually seen cruising in Bugatti Veroni that people say costs about N400 million. So, it is like we moved from the frying pan to fire. Our people complained that the former governor is not from Bauchi, either by blood or marriage, and voted him out.  Buhari’s succession plan
THERE are chances that Dogara could have suffered the same fate that befell his former colleague, Hon. Abdulmumin Jibrin, whose wrangling with Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, led to his loss in the 2019 election in Kano State. But, having won his re-election to the House of Representatives, Dogara’s return to APC could pave the way for his greater relevance given the changing dynamics in the governing party.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .