• Jegede raises the alarm over PVC, PMC hoarding
• Akeredolu, others jittery of my popularity, says Ajayi
• Idowu Ajanaku endorses governor for second term Grassroots Movement has accused Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, of making an offer to buy delegates with $1,000 each to get their votes ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election. The group’s state Co-ordinator, Mr. Taiwo Akinfehinwa, who spoke while addressing journalists at a popular hotel in Akure, yesterday, said that the PDP ticket might end up in the hands of the highest bidder. Akinfehinwa alleged that the deputy governor had perfected plans on how each of his coordinators in the 18 local councils would distribute the money to delegates before the commencement of the primary election. He said: “We have been informed by some of our party delegates that the deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, has allegedly promised to offer each delegate $1,000. On Wednesday in Ondo State, we may experience rain of dollars during the PDP governorship primary. “Some of these delegates are already jubilating to cash out, while others felt that selling their votes may deny the party the great opportunity to produce a credible candidate and which may later spell a doom on the party during the main election. Similarly, the Spokesperson for Eyitayo Jegede Campaign Organisation (EJCO), Mr. Gbenga Akinmoyo, has raised the alarm that some persons had been collecting the Permanent Voters Card (PVC) and Party Membership Card (PMC) for fraudulent purposes. He said: “While awaiting an official statement from the party, we take this opportunity to inform particularly our delegates and all party faithful that as we have not been informed of such procedural requirement, we, therefore, instruct that you do not release these crucial forms of identification to anybody and do not fall victim of such antics.” However, the Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr. Babatope Okeowo, has dispelled allegations against his boss as “beer-parlour and gutter-talks.” Okeowo, who alleged that the lies were fabricated by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and some of his collaborators in PDP, said they were jittery of Ajayi’s growing popularity in the forthcoming election.
MEANWHILE, the second term bid of Akeredolu yesterday received a boost as former Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, Mr. Idowu Ajanaku, urged support for his re-election. Ajanaku, who spoke with The Guardian yesterday in Akure, noted that only the candidacy of Akeredolu could give the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) a resounding victory in the election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .