The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), University of Port Harcourt chapter, has warned that political interference and secret recruitment of academic staff will impede quality of teaching and research in the institution. It accused the Federal Government of supporting the violation of due process in the university system with its continued failure to constitute a governing council for the university. Chairman of ASUU in the university, Dr. Austen A. Sado, shortly after its congress in Port Harcourt, stated that recruitment of academic staff was usually based on departmental staff requirements and not politically determined. Sado described the alleged on-going secret recruitment as a sour grape capable of further deepening the fractured relationship in the institution, adding that the recruitment was devoid of transparency and equity, as the university authorities refused to advertise positions that needed to be filled. “A few individuals have hijacked the exercise without any modicum of equity and transparency. We are sad to note that these individuals are peddling the falsehood that the government gave waivers to the university not to advertise. One wonders what such intuitive method of recruitment was designed to achieve. “Political patronage cannot be the basis for employment in the universities. All qualified candidates must be given equal opportunity in the selection process. As a union driven by equity and justice, ASUU will continue to insist that the right thing must be done,” he said. Sado stated that ASUU was worried that the university management had continued to engage in virulent and pervasive violation of procedure in running the institution, stressing that the secret recruitment of academic and non-academic staff has violated the rules and procedures for such exercise. ASUU, therefore, insisted that it would resist the exercise and its outcome because it lacked all indices of evaluation and appears to be a tactic to hurriedly engage unqualified cronies and to synchronise the personnel register with fraudulent personnel costs. Sado, who expressed disappointment that the Federal Government had failed to constitute a governing council for the university for inexplicable reasons, cited the University Autonomy Act, saying it clearly stipulated that once a governing council was dissolved, another council should be immediately constituted, as if the council was not dissolved in the first place.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .