Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri has charged heads of security agencies in the state to re-double their effort in tackling the rising incidence of kidnapping and other forms of insecurity. Giving the charge during his maiden security council meeting in Government House, Yenagoa, Governor Diri urged the security chiefs to maintain a high level of professionalism in the discharge of their duties. Acting Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Daniel Alabrah, stated yesterday that the governor also challenged them to place the interest of the state at par with that of the country. The governor said: “While the security of lives and property rests squarely on the Federal Government, our administration will not fold its arms and watch cases of kidnapping and harassment of citizens by criminal elements go unaddressed. “If you remove security, national currency and others, every other thing in the federal system of government is under the state government; be it education, health or infrastructure. Security is the pride of every nation. “So, you are here representing Nigeria and Bayelsa. The way you serve here will determine what God has for you in future. As you serve diligently, with all amount of commitment, unbiased and apolitical, you make name that transcends politics and political parties.” The governor attested to the security agents’ effort to avoid being drawn into politics, in the few months he had been working with them, urging them to “keep it up.” Welcoming the new Commissioner of Police (CP), Mike Okoli, the governor expressed optimism that he would synergise with other security organs to ensure no threat goes beyond their reach. He explained that those asking why a new CP had again been posted to the state should know that there was no political manoeuvring from any quarter. According to him, the former CP only moved according to the service rules and Bayelsans are happy that someone who served in the state was elevated to the position of Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police. “For the few months that he (former CP Akpan Ekereuwem) was here, he served diligently and showed understanding with the people. If I was asked to rate the CP, I would have scored him 80 per cent for his promotion,” he said. Diri emphasised his administration’s zero tolerance for crime and willingness to cooperate with the service commanders to ensure that Bayelsans sleep peacefully. In attendance at the meeting were heads of the Police, Army, Air Force, Navy, Civil Defence, Department of State Services (DSS) and Immigration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .