Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, has expressed dismay over what he described as a massive fraud, ranging from discrepancies in salary and pensions padding, to over-bloated and double payments uncovered in the state’s payroll system. He vowed to publish details of the infractions and prosecute the perpetrators, insisting that he had paid verified genuine retirees up till June, contrary to clamour by the affected persons to be paid. While the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) directed teachers to embark on seven-day fasting and prayers last week over three months salary arrears, the retirees had protested twice, asking for their over 80 months’ pensions and begging alms on the streets of in Owerri. However, Uzodinma had announced plans to integrate the retirees into the National Contributory Pensions Scheme (NCPS) to enhance good governance and seamless pensions regime. He said this at a meeting with the state chapter of the Nigerian Union of Pensioners (NUP) led by Dr. Josaiah Ugochukwu and the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) led by Austin Chilapku, at Government House, Owerri. Meanwhile, immediate past Deputy Governor of Imo State, Gerald Irona, had broken his silence since he left office with former Governor Emeka Ihedioha on January 14, 2020, saying he was ready for investigation of his activities while in office. Irona, spoke against the backdrop of clamour for his arrest and probe over his activities in office by some persons in the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE). In a statement issued by his Adviser on Communications, Walter Duru, he said he was proud to serve under the Ihedioha administration, which he described as a transparent government, before the Supreme Court sacked it and installed Uzodinma. Irona also distanced himself from the crisis in the Imo State Oil Producing Areas Developing Commission (ISOPADEC), insisting that the Ihedioha administration would be ready to accept a comparism and an assessment of the All Progressives Congress (APC) under Uzodimma, after August 14, 2020, when the incumbent administration would have served seven months. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .