Following the latest report of the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Federal Government has been charged to act quickly to arrest the growing insecurity, poverty and other issues in the country. A development economist, Dr. Chiwuike Uba, gave the charge while reacting to Nigeria Living Standard Survey (NLSS) of the NBS, stressing that the revelations indicated that the future of Nigerians looked bleak and so government should act fast to save the situation from further degenerating. Uba also expressed concern over the lack of evidence-based and empirically supported national and sub-national economic development plans, even as the population of different states continued to rise. The 2018/2019 NBS report released recently had highlighted statistics of gender spread, population growth, and poverty ratio of states across the country, among others. Uba told The Guardian yesterday that the report threw up several questions than answers to the existing political and socio-economic challenges and dilemma the country was facing. He lamented that Nigeria had spent billions of naira conducting surveys, constituting committees to review various reports, as well as generate ‘white papers’ on reports that were never implemented. “How do reports, especially, the NLSS report fit into our planning, policies, and budgets? How many states and local governments analyse such reports to determine the implications of their findings on the economy and wellbeing of their people? “How do such reports facilitate the development of actionable strategies to address the identified challenges, learn the right lessons and mitigate or cushion the effects of the challenges on citizens? he queried. Uba also argued that whenever the country developed economic plans, it usually took a knee jerk approach, describing its methods as interventionist, ad-hoc, non-inclusive, academic, and neither intended to solve any real problems nor judiciously implemented. “In most cases, national and subnational plans are at crossroads leading to wastages and implementation challenges. “Horizontally, there are no real collaboration, coordination, communication and cooperation among government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), while at the vertical level, the same applies to the executive, legislature and judiciary,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .