Operatives of the Nigeria Police Cybercrime Unit, INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB), Abuja have arrested three suspects Samson Inegbenesun  30years, Blessed Junior 32years and Muhammed Zakari 36years for fraud, money laundering and romance scam. Nigeria police in a statement disclosed that the suspects all male are from Uromi in Edo State, Nigeria. The suspects, police said were arrested in Uromi following investigations into suspected fraudulent online procurement and supply of COVID-19 protective mask, received through the INTERPOL NCB Wiesbaden, Germany. “Investigations reveal that Samson Inegbenosun is an internet fraudster and a member of a Turkey-based online scamming syndicate,” police said. “He supplies foreign and local bank accounts to receive fraudulent funds and use same as conduit to other feeder accounts.” The police said it recovered a building apartment worth N20 million, a Toyota RAV-4 2015 model worth N6.5 million and a Toyota Matrix 2002 model valued at N2 million which Inegbenosun procured with the proceeds of the crime. The second suspect, Blessed Junior, police said returned to Nigeria from Italy in February 2020 but maintains close contacts and illicit dealings with his Italian associates. “Investigations reveal that he has made over One Hundred and Twenty Million Naira (N120,000,000.00) from internet fraud and other cybercrime dealings,” police said. Police said Junior also received the sum of 52,000 EUROs recently from his criminal associates in Italy as commission for his active involvement in an international cybercrime deal. He also owns a filling station established with the proceeds of the crime. Mohammed Zakari, an expert in internet fraud, identity theft and impersonation, falsely claims to be a British citizen. Police said Zakari also poses to be one Kelly Galk on online dating apps which he uses to carry out romance scams and to defraud unsuspecting members of the public, locally and internationally. “Investigation reveals he has made millions of naira from his illicit cybercrime transactions since he joined the syndicate,” police said. “All the suspects will be charged to court on conclusion of investigation and prosecuted in line with the Cybercrime Prevention/Prohibition Act, 2015.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .