Gov. Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom has reaffirmed his government’s determination to complete all the ongoing road constructions and other projects in the state. Emmanuel stated this while inspecting some of the ongoing road constructions and other projects in Uyo on Monday. “In line with my second term slogan: ‘Completion Agenda’, I am restating my determination to complete all the ongoing roads and other life-touching projects within the lifespan of my administration,” he said. Emmanuel explained that he had made funds available to the contractors to ensure completion of all the ongoing projects across the state. According to him, the money may be in piece meal due to the challenges posed by coronavirus as well as the drastic adjustments in the state budget. The governor, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Ephraim Inyang-Eyen, explained that the inspection had become imperative in order to offer the governor the opportunity to see things for himself since the ease of the lockdown, occasioned by the COVID 19 pandemic. “Let me use this opportunity to make some clarifications since I am still the supervising Commissioner for Works. “Today, we went across local governments to see the jobs which Gov. Udom Emmanuel has given out and the level of their compliance and completion. “However, we noticed some little challenges, which are traced to the delay in valuation for compensation to owners of structures in certain areas, with the assurances of the contractors. “Some parts or entire stretch of the roads we have inspected can be asphalted, perhaps in the next one or two months, especially for the fact that drainage and earthwork had been done,” he said. The governor commended the contractors, whom he observed, were serious with their work, but cautioned that the excuses associated with the rainy season were not altogether tenable, as there were still certain kinds of work that could be done, irrespective of weather conditions. “I appreciate the level of cooperation shown by the contractors by the indigenes of the area. Government’s intention is to see the works moving, no matter the challenges,” he said.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Akanimo Etukudoh, the Youth Leader of Ikot Akpan Essien in Oruk Anam Local Government area, mobilised some youths to accord the visitors a rousing welcome. Etukudoh expressed happiness that their prayers for good roads had been answered through the governor, assuring of their continuous support to the contractors to ensure that the project was completed within the time frame. NAN reports that amongst the roads visited were the 18.95-kilometre Ikot Ibritam-Inen Ekeffe-Ikot Akpan Afaha road and the 23.25-kilometre Ikot Ekaide-Ikot Okoro-Ikot Ibritam road, all in Oruk Anam Local Government area of the state. The inspection team also visited other projects embarked upon by the state government, with the assurance that they would be inaugurated soon for the benefit of the people. NAN also reports that the contractors promised to deliver the road projects within record time.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .