• Youths’ group lauds Buhari on establishment of youth bank The governorship candidate of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in the 2019 general elections in Oyo State, Oyedele Hakeem Alao, yesterday, threatened to sue Governor Seyi Makinde if he goes ahead to access the N100 billion bond. Alao, in a statement in Ibadan through his media aide, Omotayo Iyanda, described the move as a way to throw the hardworking and innocent citizens of the state into a perpetual financial burden. Alao said that he was shocked to hear that the governor decided to take the N100 billion bond to finance projects that could be financed gradually through internally-generated revenue (IGR). He noted that the loan would hamper the economic progress of the state and comfort of the people, adding that any sensible man should wonder how a governor, who criticised his predecessor, the late Senator Isiaq Abiola Ajimobi, in 2018 for taking a loan of N130 billion in seven years. In another development, a youth development movement, Ojo Ola Oyo, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the establishment of Nigerian Youth Investment Fund (NYIF), which aimed at bringing the best out of Nigerian youths, solve youths’ unemployment, among others. Its founder, Alhaji Kehinde Olaosebikan, who spoke with journalists at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan, at the weekend, said that the actualisation of the Fund initiated by the Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, said that Nigeria had finally got the right person to run the affairs of her youths. Olaosebikan, who spoke with journalists at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, Iyaganku, Ibadan, at the weekend, stated that the youth bank, first of its kind in the history of Nigeria, was the impetus the youths require to unleash their potentials in the development of the various aspects of the country and excel among their peers globally. According to him: “Approval for the establishment of the Fund is very heartwarming. It is the finest development coming from Abuja of late. The Fund, akin to a youth bank, is what the ever ingenious, innovative, resilient and hardworking Nigerian youths need to unleash their talents, skills and energies in the development of themselves in various professions, vocations, sports and politics locally and across the globe. What have been lacking in youth development in Nigeria had been adequate inspiring leadership, apposite environment and funds for investment in ideas, skills and research.   The NYIF would bring out the best in them and lead to huge revolutions in virtually all facets of life.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .