Akwa Ibom State Government has declared that it would do everything within its powers to reopen schools and allow its students to participate in the 2020 West African Examinations Council (WAEC) tests. This followed as the state Chairman of the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Udofia Davies, refuted reports that the COVID-19 safety measures were not realistic in private schools in the state. Commissioner for Education, Professor Nse Essien, disclosed this in an interview with The Guardian, saying SSS3 students would partake in the 2020 examination having put in place all COVID-19 safety guidelines for them. He stressed that the 2020 WAEC should be made optional hence states that are ready with safety guidelines should be allowed to go on with the examination. Essien stated that the state would not allow its students to lose one or two years due to COVID-19, which he said, may have come to stay, adding that the entire country should adjust by observing social distancing, personal and respiratory hygiene, regular hand washing, avoid crowded environment and self- isolate whenever necessary. “We are doing everything possible to allow our students to participate in the 2020 WAEC examination with all safety guidelines in place. Taking the 2020 WAEC should be made in such a manner that each state that is safe and ready to take the examination should be allowed to do so. “We are of the opinion that schools should reopen and we shall avail ourselves of safety measures. We have worked out modalities to ensure that our environment is safe for the students and the teachers. “Our government is working hard to bring back our students to school starting with the examination classes. We are part of Nigeria and we will listen to the Federal Government, but it should be noted that coronavirus has come to stay.   Therefore, we should see the level of preparedness in the country and tell everybody to resume schools.” Besides, Davies described reports that safety guidelines were not realistic in private schools in Akwa Ibom as mischievous, maintaining that all private schools in the state were ready for resumption, but with strict adherence to all safety guidelines. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .