• Says He’s Laying Foundation For State’s Perdition The Progressives Front, a group within the Oyo State’s All Progressives Congress (APC), has condemned the N100b bond being proposed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)-led administration in the state. The group described the proposal as laying the foundation to Oyo State’s developmental perdition. A statement signed by its State Chairman, Olugbenga Olayemi and Secretary, Wale Murphy, said for the administration to take such a humongous loan, which details are opaque, is akin to laying the foundation for financial enslavement of the state. The group maintained that the bond was tantamount to sending unborn generation into future suffering, several years after the administration would have ended. “When did we come to this sorry pass in Oyo State? We had thought, with all his pre-election promises, Makinde had creative ways of generating revenue for the state. It was this same Makinde, who said he would raise the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and within a few months, we would be competing with Lagos State in IGR. “He also said we would be exporting maize to Botswana to increase revenue. He said within six months, Oyo State, under his watch, would no longer go cap in hand to Abuja to beg for federal allocation. Obviously, all these were mere rhetorics to hoodwink our people to submit their mandate. After a year and two months, he is plunging the state into a debt burden”. “Makinde condemned the past administration for incurring a debt of about N90b in eight years, but within his 14-month sojourn, he is about incurring a debt of about N150b. Oyo State would be in debt and would find it difficult to get out. The government should have a rethink.” Meanwhile, the group has also thrown its weight behind the Chief Akin Oke-led State party Executive Council. It advised all those behind calls for vote of no confidence on the executives to desist from the exercise, which is capable of further causing disunity in the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .