 The late Fasanmi  He died on Wednesday at Osogbo, Osun State capital. Fasanmi was among core loyalists of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. Publicity Secretary, Afenifere (Ilosiwaju Yoruba), Chief Akin Fasae, confirmed the passing on of the leader. He said Baba lived well and posterity would be kind to him. The son of the former leader of Afenifere, Folabi, who confirmed his death in a statement said: “With great gratitude to the Almighty God for a life well spent, we wish to announce the demise of our father, Senator Ayo Fasanmi at the ripe age of 94 years. “Pa will be buried in his hometown, Iyin-Ekiti, on August 4, 2020.” Meanwhile, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has expressed sadness over the demise of Fasanmi. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, the Speaker said though the demise of the late patriot would be felt by the nation, the progressives and his family, solace would, however, be taken in the fact that his footprints have been firmly entrenched in the sands of time. Also, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has described the late Afenifere leader as one of the heroes of democracy being enjoyed in the country today. Fayemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, described Fasanmi as a steadfast Awoist and committed progressive who was a torchbearer for younger progressives in his lifetime. In the same vein, Afenifere Leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti, in a statement signed by the group’s Secretary, Yinka Odumakin, noted that Fasanmi would be remembered as a firebrand Action Grouper who distinguished himself as a principled fighter for the ideals of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. While the All Progressives Congress (APC) in a statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, said that the Yoruba, and indeed, the nation at large have lost a father to all whose indelible strides would forever be remembered, the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE) described the death of Fasanmi as a great loss to the Yoruba nation and Nigeria in general. Secretary of the YCE, Dr. Kunle Olajide, in a telephone conversation with The Guardian in Ado-Ekiti, said that the late Fasanmi was a very patriotic Nigerian who gave his best to the service of the country. Those who also mourned the Afenifere leader included Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun and Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Gani Adams. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .