• ‘It’s big plus to Nigeria Women’s football’
Former Super Falcons coach, Ismaila Mabo has counselled the management of Rivers Angels FC of Port Harcourt against ‘throwing a spanner’ on the transfer move by the duo of Tochukwu Oluehi and Evelyn Nwabuoku to Spanish club, Pozoalbense. Goalkeeper Oluehi, who kept for the Super Falcons at France 2019 FIFA Women’s World Cup alongside Nwabuoku, who captained the team, were said to have joined the Spanish club, Pozoalbense for the 2020-21 season about a week ago. But the management of Rivers Angels FC described as ‘misleading and inaccurate’ reports about the signing yesterday. The statement on their Twitter handle reads: “This is to inform the general public that news making the rounds about two of our players; Evelyn Nwabuoku and Tochukwu Oluehi signing for a Spanish Reto Iberdrola club Pozoalbense is misleading and inaccurate. “As of Thursday, July 9, 2020, Nwabuoku and Oluehi remain bonafide players of Rivers Angels FC with existing contracts with us. Neither the said club nor its representatives have contacted anyone from here and hearing that they have announced the signing of our players is highly disrespectful and unethical. “If and when both players secure any deals from teams in Europe, Rivers Angels FC will most definitely communicate it to the world via our various platforms but for now, neither has signed anything with anyone,” the statement said. However, Mabo told The Guardian yesterday, that it would be a ‘wicked act’ by the Rivers Angels to stop the two players from taking their soccer trade to Spain. “I will appeal to Rivers Angels to allow them to go because it will be a big plus, not only to the players and Rivers Angels, but Nigerian women’s football in general. “At the end, I know that some money will come to Rivers Angels and the parents of the two players will be better for it. Stopping them from such a transfer will amount to killing their professional career. ” Rivers Angels have produced so many stars for Nigeria, and I know that some younger ones will come up soon to fill the vacancy created by the departure of Evelyn Nwabuoku and Tochukwu Oluehi. It is an appeal to the club,” Mabo stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .