• Sponsors threaten court action
The crisis over the registration of Ohanaeze Ndigbo by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) may have been resolved as the commission withdrew the certificate yesterday, saying it was issued in error. But in a swift reaction to the development, the splinter group threatened litigation against the commission and leaders of the main Ohanaeze Ndigbo, arguing that it was properly registered having followed CAC’s stipulated due process. An official of the commission told The Guardian that the certificate was withdrawn because promoters of the group failed to meet certain requirements for registration as an association. Traditional ruler of Igbariam in Anambra East Council Area of Anambra State, Igwe Nkeli Nzekwe, who named himself Chairman, Board of Trustees (BOT) of the group had on Monday inaugurated its leaders at his palace. He had announced dissolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the authentic Ohanaeze Ndigbo, stressing that those who could not register a group should not preside over it. The action of the Nzekwe-led group had attracted condemnation from Igbo leaders, who did not only accuse the sponsors of fanning embers of disunity, but also being used to further marginalise Ndigbo in the country. The leaders also accused the CAC of double standards, but in a move to absolve itself from crisis, the commission said it had withdrawn the group’s certificate. “This is to inform members of the general public that the Corporate Affairs Commission has withdrawn the certificate with registration No. 144918 inadvertently issued to the Trustees of Ohanaeze Ndigbo General Assembly”. “The trustees have been advised to return the certificate to the commission as it has been canceled since the conditions for its issuance have not been fully met,” the CAC said in a statement. An official of the commission, who confirmed the authenticity of the document, said it was “issued in a hurry and wrongly,” stressing, “We have withdrawn the certificate. We have also given reasons why we did so. They were improperly issued.” Nzekwe, however, said the group was not aware of the withdrawal of its certificate, adding, “We have not been contacted. We were duly and properly registered and issued with a certificate of registration, which is currently with me. “We have not been communicated formally on whatever development with the CAC. We have a contact address and if they choose to contact another person, that is not our business,” he said. He stressed that the move to register a splinter Ohanaeze Ndigbo had nothing to do with next year’s Anambra governorship election for which he had opposed rotation. Meanwhile, the Ohanaeze Ndigbo and South East Governors have set up a 50–man Steering Committee tagged Alaigbo Stabilisation Fund headed by Professor Osita Ogbu to drive development of the region. The move is aimed at developing Igbo land to the status of Catalonia in Spain and Bayern in Germany. While Senator Anyim Ude, will serve as its Secretary, Mac Atasia, Ike Chioke, Patrick Okigbo, Nnanna Anyim Ude, Nick Okoye and Ndy Onukwuesi, among others will serve as members. President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, said the fund would drive investments in the South East such that every Igbo investor and entrepreneur would want to take advantage of the incentives it would provide. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .