21st Century Technologies Limited, ICT powerhouse in Africa has launched Konet; a wholly indigenous business collaboration tool that will help Small, Medium and Large scale enterprises (SMEs) rebuild the damage caused by the COVID 19 Pandemic. Konet is Nigeria’s first owned collaboration tool, it is a technology suite that empowers individuals, SMEs, startups and businesses to become more productive online. Its features include but not limited to Voice, Video, Live Chat, File Sharing with Brand Customisation. Wale Ajisebutu, founder and CEO of 21st Century Technologies Limited,  said the platform was carefully designed to cater for the needs of SME and Businesses as they face the new normal occasioned by the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic.   “Our plan is to build an ecosystem to enable collaboration, most secure collaboration environment in businesses, add efficiencies to workflows and allow organizations make decisions quickly with customers, vendors, and partners”. He said He emphasized that Konet is a very secured platform with enterprise grade security features and compliance standards to prevent data loss.   “Our ISO certifications make us top of the line globally however we’ve ensured that our services remain easily deployed and used by businesses. “This will help Nigeria as a country to rebuild the damaged economy being caused by COVID-19 pandemic”, the 21st Century CEO added. Ibukun Femi-Ajala, Konet team lead further stated that the service is targeted at Corporates, Transportation, Retail, Hospitality, Educational Institutions, Government and individuals. With Konet’s seamless connectivity, brainstorming sessions with your teammates will be more productive. “Konet is more than just a collaboration tool and will become a technology marketplace. We have decided to launch first and then introduce other key features and products in batches. Unquestionably, you will see some features of Konet in other existing products which have been successful”. While Konet’s biggest challenge could be the conversion ratio from other collaboration platforms, Ibukun believes the effectiveness and features of the platform will distinguish it among peers. “Online collaboration has become our new norm with the recent happenings of COVID-19 pandemic crisis, the minds of our target market is re-oriented to the possibility of how effective ‘Work from Home’ can help reduce the running cost and mental wellness of members for most organization, hence the need for collaboration tool to enhance productivity amongst team members. “ he said To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .