A young man brushing his teeth | Photo -iStock Tooth brushing is the act of scrubbing teeth with a toothbrush equipped with toothpaste. Although brushing is a daily routine for most of us, many still do not know how to brush their teeth correctly. In this article, we will take a look at some common mistakes we all make while brushing our teeth. The wrong angle:
Brushing once or twice daily is not enough, you have to ensure that you are brushing at the right angle. The angle of your brush should be 45 degree to the gum line to have greater efficiency in cleaning. Also, when you brush at this angle, you are brushing safely and don’t wear your tooth or cause injuries to the gums. Furthermore, brush vertical (upside down/downside upward) as it cleans the food debris between the two teeth. Most people brush horizontally but this leads to faster tooth loss and less efficient cleaning. Time spent on brushing:
The ideal time to spend on brushing your teeth is between three to five minutes. Toothpaste has a softening agent in it which requires at least 3 minutes to act on the food ruminants inside our mouth. Food debris in your teeth doesn’t get soften enough in less than three minutes and if you brush for a lesser period, it cannot get removed by the brush. Wrong Consistency Of Brush:
Your brush should have consistency otherwise you can injure your gums and teeth. Hard, Medium, Soft, Ultra soft are the different brush consistencies and you should ask your dentist to recommend the appropriate consistency depending on your teeth type. Using Same Brush For Months:
Your toothbrush is not your best friend so don’t be afraid to discard it for a new one. You are advised to change your brush every 3 to 4 months. If you follow the ideal protocol and correct brushing technique your brush should last for 3 months. Not Cleaning Your Tongue
The tongue is a soft and rough texture which makes it a good habitat for bacteria. Many neglect brush cleaning while brushing when in fact, it is one of the most important parts of your oral hygiene maintenance. You can either buy a tongue cleaner in the market or brush by giving soft strokes on the tongue. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.