Man remanded in prison for defiling minor in Kano A 10-year-old girl from Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State, reportedly raped by five men, including her aunt’s husband, has been rescued by youths in the area. The victim is now in the custody of one Hajiya Rabi Salisu of Arida Foundation of Nigeria (AFN). Salisu, in a viral video with the victim a few days ago, explained that the victim’s mother, who has separated from her father, reported the girl to her sister’s husband for refusing to hawk. The sister’s husband took advantage of the girl’s situation and introduced her to two of his relatives who together with him, raped the girl. According to Rabi, the girl later met a man selling fairly used clothes in the market, who started taking advantage of her. A bakery owner also joined in taking advantage of the girl after buying the cooked rice the girl was hawking. Rabi explained that four of the suspected rapists have been arrested by the police. “We don’t know where the victim’s mother is at the moment, but her father is deformed and cannot move,” she said, adding that the girl has been handed over to her to ensure justice and enroll in school. The Kaduna State police spokesman, ASP Mohammed Jalige, explained that the police have strong evidence against two of the suspects who had already made confessional statements, adding that the other two have not confessed while investigation is ongoing. Meanwhile, a magistrates’ court sitting in Zungeru, Kano State, has remanded one Aminu Auwalu for a one-charge count of alleged rape of a 10-year-old girl at Tsamiyar Babba quarters in Kano metropolis. The 25-year-old suspect was said to have lured the girl into his sister’s house where he forcefully had carnal knowledge of the victim.	Presenting the first information report before Chief Magistrate Mohammad Idris of Court 18, the prosecutor, ASP Badamasi Gawuna, revealed that the police arrested the suspect following a report by one Abubakar Kabiru of Tokarawa Quarters, father of the victim, on June 29. The prosecution counsel disclosed that investigation revealed that “sometime in May 2020, the suspect, Aminu Auwal, deceived the girl into his sister’s house at Tsamiyar Babba and forcefully had canal knowledge of her.” According to him, the act was in clear violation of section 283 of the penal code, which clearly stated that whoever commits rape shall be punished with imprisonment for life or for any less term. The suspect, however, pleaded not guilty to the charge.Chief Magistrate Idris adjourned the matter till August 31 for further hearing, while he remanded the suspect in the custody of Kano Central Correctional Service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .