To enhance the operations of Courier and Logistics services in Nigeria, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, has approved new guidelines Courier and Logistics Operations 2020, in line with Section 62 of NIPOST Act, Cap N127, LFN 2004, to replace the former regulation, which has been in existence since 2001. The new regulation created six categories of licensing for International operators, Regional State, Municipal or Intra-city, and giving consideration for special Small & Medium Enterprises (SME) Licence. Pantami, in a letter of approval disclosed that the new regulation will no doubt enhance the regulatory powers of NIPOST in this subsector of the economy. NIPOST explained that the categorization is to enable the licensees to operate at their levels per time and scope, and will assist SMEs to grow and create youth empowerment that will translate into employment opportunities for Nigerians. NIPOST General Manager, Corporate Communications, Franklin Alao, who made this known, Wednesday in Abuja, said the new guideline has made it possible for every operator, irrespective of their category, to be identified with specific address and location that is traceable to before and after engaging their service. This will eliminate the risk posed by dubious operators who may take advantage of poor control to operate illegally. He said the categorization creates room for migration as a licensee has rights to migrate from a particular licence category to another, but must do so in compliance with Section 3(4) of these regulations as pertain to the desired licence category before expiry date of the subsisting licence. He noted that to maintain diligence, trustworthiness, operators will be required to display in their offices a list of prohibited and restricted courier and logistic items, to guide their customers. Alao explained that the new regulation is a great improvement on the old one, and is aimed at rejigging the
logistic and courier ecosystem of the economy, and significantly improve efficiency and effectiveness, in line with President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration policy on the ease of doing business. He observed that the previous regulation largely focused on the big players in the industry with no clear cut role and guidelines for the SMEs, particularly the start-ups, thereby creating laxity that caused proliferation in the industry.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .