Toothpicks are simple, yet highly sought-after items all over Nigeria and the world. Despite the CBN-imposed ban on foreign exchange for this commodity, millions of dollars are still spent on its importation every year. The demand for toothpicks spreads across the urban and rural areas in Nigeria, thereby creating a continually growing market for toothpick production. Market Prospects
Toothpick production in Nigeria remains amply unexplored, as investors and entrepreneurs are yet to tap into its full potential. Presently, there are about five toothpick manufacturing companies in Nigeria struggling to meet the demand of over 100 million consumers, while maintaining the quality of their products. Raw Materials
There are three types of toothpicks generally produced – bamboo, wood or plastic, with bamboo being the most popular. The chosen choice determines the major raw material i.e. bamboo stem, wood or plastic pellets. Equipment Needed
Automated machines are the principal forces in toothpick production in Nigeria or anywhere around the world. The two types of toothpick engines are semi-automated and fully-automated injection moulding machines. Some toothpick machines are produced in Nigeria, while the rest are imported.
Purchasing high-quality machinery is a way to ensure efficient operations and machine-life longevity. The machines for toothpick production in Nigeria are;
Slitting machine
Sharpening machine
Round cross-cutting machine
Scrap grinding machine
Dry colour mixer
Slicing machine
Polishing machine
A variety of moulds
Mould lifting machinery
Weighing scales and
Packaging machine
Production Process Cut bamboo into 430-450mm length.
Install the ferule steamed steamer and put in the initial temperature of 40 °C, and then heating to 70 °C, keep 70 ° C temperature cooking for 2 hours;
Remove the bamboo board, and cut it into 2.4mm thick bamboo strips with a width of 50mm;
The drying machine is used for drying, and its moisture content is 10-12%, and the bamboo strips are 2.2mm thick after shrinkage.
After placing 4-6 hours, use the round rod mechanism to make a round rod;
Round rod through the toothpick sharpening machine and cut into toothpicks. Distribution/ Marketing Options
The envisaged plant can set up its own sales/marketing team to engage in a sustained one-on-one sales drive. Advertising options could be based on usage of flyers and referrals, Manpower Requirement
A total of 10-15 staff is required in the short-term operations of the plant. They include Skilled Worker 2, Semi-skilled Workers 6, Salesmen 1, Driver-cum-salesman 1, and Security Operative 1 Investment Cost
Estimated Start-Up Cost (Small Scale) –	N4, 500,000  – N5,500,000.00
Potential Profit-		N3,000,000  – N6,000,000.00 per annum
Estimated Start-Up Cost (Medium–Large Scale) – N25, 500,000  – N65,500, 000.00
Potential Profit-			N 18,000,000  – N45,000,000.00 per annum
This profile, or any similar one, can be developed into a bankable proposal for any interested investor. For further clarification, do contact our offices or info@michaelstevens-consulting.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .