Implementation Manager, LSETF, Tosin Faniro-Dada Lagos State Government through the State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), has tasked youths on the need to become more creative, and develop competencies in information, and communication technology (ICT). Speaking at the virtual graduation ceremony of the first cohort of 18 students that participated in the Lagos Innovates Talent Development Programme, an initiative by Honeywell Group and the LSETF, the Implementation Manager, LSETF, Tosin Faniro-Dada, said ICT is key to 21st Century development. She said: “In a time of so much disruption and uncertainty, your graduation brings rays of excitement and some sense of normalcy. We are proud of your dedication and achievement, and hope that the programme aided your journey to self-discovery and expression of creativity and innovation. I encourage you to stay connected with your peers, and with us. We are excited for your future and committed to your success.” According to her, the Talent Development Programme aims to ensure that Nigeria keeps apace with changes in technologies and competencies that will define the 21st century and beyond. This is why Honeywell Group Limited partnered LSETF to help youth in Lagos State acquire relevant skills required to compete in today’s global market. Addressing the graduating class, the Chairman of the Programme Steering Committee and Head, Innovation and Sustainability, Honeywell Group, Tomi Otudeko, noted, “We are proud of you and we thank you for your commitment, you should be proud that you started this programme and you ended it. It’s a testament to your resolve and dedication.” “I am proud that Honeywell Group Limited partnered with LSETF to make this a reality. This graduation is happening via a technology platform that did not exist few years ago. Technology is growing at an exponential rate, with new technology springing up at every corner of the world; we want Lagos to also be that corner of the world. We want Lagos to be the place where we are building the platforms of tomorrow,” she added. Speaking further, “It is an interesting time to change careers, a time to innovate and do things in a new way, think of new solutions for the companies you will be working with, live a life of innovation. Continue to build on your technique and the skills you have learnt; you have platforms and access to train yourselves, strive for excellence and be good ambassadors of this programme”, she stated. The training partners engaged for the first batch of students were Univelcity and Nesa by Makers. The courses offered were Full Stack Development with JavaScript (React JS, NodeJs, Express and Mongo DB + API Development), among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .