Former Gombe FA Chairman, Ahmed Shuaibu Gara Gombe, has appealed to clubs that may eventually be affected by the adopted Points Per Game (PPG) model of the League Management Company (LMC) to round off the 2019/20 season, to sheath their swords and forge ahead. Stakeholders of the NPFL had recently agreed on the PPG method to choose clubs that would represent the country in all Confederation of African Football’s competitions next season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Federal Government had warned that no sporting activities may be allowed this year again as a result of the increasing rate of the pandemic. Speaking to The Guardian during the week, Gombe said that all the clubs needed to come together in unison and agree on how to end the season, following protests from some disgruntled stakeholders over the PPG model. “There is nothing special about the PPG model, everyone should know that this is a child of necessity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This was why the Federal Government imposed lockdown leading to the stoppage of all sporting activities. “All the stakeholders should know that the PPG was a forced situation the NFF definitely has to look at holistically and do the right thing. We have to survive first, and then live before we can talk about the league. “The PPG is not an issue for me because we should just realign our league and do the needful, be focused on the positive way forward for next season,” he said, adding that the Federal Government had expressed doubts over any sporting activity returning this year. “Up till now, the Federal Government is still battling on locking down a few local governments and all that. The country is not stable yet and every meaningful person that wants the right thing for Nigeria should care less about the PPG on who comes first, second, and all that. “And if any man doesn’t want us to be relegated to our graves, he should be considerate and cooperate with the authority on the way forward because COVID-19 pandemic is a test of faith for humanity. “The way forward is for all stakeholders to come together in one voice no matter who is hurt. Whether you are a victor or vanquished, all that matters is for a final resolution of the issue. I feel for Lobi Stars, Akwa United and the rest of who fell disgruntled. But I am on the side of the majority,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .