AKA | Image: HipHopHub South African rapper Kiernan Jarryd Forbes better known as AKA has revealed that he has coronavirus. The “Fela In Versace” rapper announced via a press release that he tested positive to the novel coronavirus. AKA said that he decided to make his result public “in an attempt to create awareness around the virus and to caution citizens to be more careful in their daily interactions with” other people. AKA said that he has taken precaution that was stipulated by the World Health Organisation and South African Government. He further added that he will be sharing his recovery journey with everyone whilst in self-isolation as he aims to be as transparent as possible about his journey with COVID-19 The “Victory Lap” singer also pleaded with his fans to “adhere to social distancing guidelines, to wear masks and to hold stringent hygiene measures by frequently sanitizing and washing” their hands. However, the rapper’s announcement was largely met with disbelief as Twitter users demanded proof and questioned his motive. Another user @thabz074 said: “The way celebrities are being used to spread propaganda and the lies….” “Think about it.. Influential people have a lot a reach to spread the Message ( Fear, Propaganda) .. Nice one AKA,” @Safricansfirst lent voice to the doubts. To those who doubt his coronavirus status AKA said that he doesn’t need the government to approach him to get his message out but he doesn’t mind either: “I don’t need the government to get my message out. I can do it from the comfort of my own home. But if the government wants to approach me … heyyy … I’m all ears.” He added that celebrities are not immune to the virus: “The problem is you think celebrities are immune to contagious diseases like COVID 19. You worship them too much.” In his response to a Twitter user @fionaobeng who alleged that the rapper’s announcement sounds like “a promo stunt”, AKA said, “Go to the mall, lick the elevator buttons, wait 5 days and come tell me about paid promo.” In March, American rapper Cardi B in an Instagram Live video alleged that some celebrities were being paid to say they have coronavirus. “I’m starting to feel like y’all n***as is paying n***as to say that they got it,” she remarked. “If y’all are paying n***as to say that they got it, pay me too.” British actor Idris Elba, who had revealed he tested positive for the illness earlier in March, denied the celebrity coronavirus conspiracy theory on Instagram Live after Cardi B’s initial comments. “I think that the negativity around test-shaming is counterproductive. I don’t see what people get out of that. And also this idea that someone like myself is gonna be paid to say I’ve got coronavirus? That’s absolute bullsh*t,” Elba said.