Canon (www.Canon-CNA.com) today announces details of REIMAGINE (https://bit.ly/2VIcxM8) – a live-streaming event revealing and discussing its biggest product launch yet.  On Thursday 9th July, 14:00 CEST, registered attendees can join the REIMAGINE keynote session (starting 14:00 CEST) which will uncover the details of the innovative product launch and also attend in-depth Q&A discussions (starting 19:00 CEST). During the REIMAGINE Q&As, attendees will have the chance to have their questions answered in sessions hosted by technology journalist Lucy Hedges who will be joined by Canon Europe product experts and leading photographers and videographers, who were among the first to experience the latest additions to Canon’s product range. The Canon Ambassadors joining the REIMAGINE discussions are: To attend the REIMAGINE event, please register at the following link: https://bit.ly/2VIcxM8 Event Details: Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Moyen-Orient
Mai Youssef
mai.youssef@canon-me.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aied to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the Africa continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA will ensure the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, it will manage sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .