Chieftain urges Reps to declare seat vacant or…
Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Board of Trustees (BoT), Senator Walid Jibrin, has faulted the reasons tendered by former speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, for defecting from the party. Walid stated yesterday that the former speaker knew that he could not become the presidential candidate of the PDP, or even the vice, in 2023. Dogara, an original All Progressives Congress (APC) member, had defected to the PDP. But last Friday, he returned to the APC. The BoT chairman, who condemned the desperation of Dogara for 2023, said: “I am beginning to suspect that the former speaker has an ulterior motives for joining APC. I suspect that Dogara has a plan of becoming president or vice president in 2023, which he knows he will never achieve in PDP.” He assured Dogara, who represents Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa in the National Assembly, that PDP would continue to be strong and united, with its doors open to all Nigerians. Dogara had cited, among others, a breakdown of governance in his native state of Bauchi under Governor Bala Mohammed whom he said he helped instal as a governor last year. He said he could not successfully ask questions about those issues without being accused of disloyalty, if he were to remain in the PDP.
IN the same vein, a PDP chieftain in Bauchi, Bibi Dogo, has asked the leadership of the House of Representatives to declare Dogara’s seat vacant or his constituency would recall him. Dogo made the threat yesterday while describing Dogara’s action as “political indiscipline” against the people of ​Bogoro, Dass and Tafawa Balewa who elected him on the PDP platform. “They don’t know why he defected to APC. He didn’t consult them before his defection. I hereby call on the House of Reps leadership to quickly declare Dogara’s seat vacant to enable his constituents elect a capable replacement,” he said. Meanwhile, Governor Mohammed’s Senior Special Assistant on New Media, Lawal Muazu, said the governor’s “only crime against the selfish elite” in the state was that he resolved to put Bauchi first before any other consideration. According to him, those who cannot absorb the heat are beginning to go away. “Financial transaction of public funds are done in an open and transparent manner unlike in the past when billions of naira were frittered away without any tangible project to show,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .