Kano state Pilgrims Welfare Board will begin refund of 2020 hajj deposits to intending pilgrims Tuesday 14th, July 2020. The board has also directed all officers across the 44 local government area to collate and forward the list of pilgrims who had completed their deposits to the board. Executive secretary of the board, Abba Muhammad Danbatta, disclosed this at a press briefing on Thursday. Danbatta assured that pilgrims deposits were intact. He said that the board was prepared to disburse the monies to whoever choose be refunded. He noted the decision to refund those willing was in line with the directive of National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). ” We have prepared arrangement to refund any intending pilgrims who are willing to receive their deposits,” Danbatta said. “Although, not many pilgrims have expressed interest, but we are ready to return pilgrims their monies. We asked them to apply through their centre officers while subsequently refund would be made through their bank details. ” We have made a public announcement through various media house because we believe pilgrims reserve the right to demand for the deposits through application and subsequent refund through. But for whoever want to differ their deposits till next year 2021, we encourage them too”. Meanwhile, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) has said priority will be given 2020 intending pilgrims would defer their deposits against 2021 pilgrimage. About 2.5 millions Muslims globally, who had perfected all travel plans and logistics for the 2020 spiritual, exercise will not be able to embark on the journey because of the COVID-19 pandemic. NAHCON commissioner for policy, Nura Hassan Yakassai, gave the assurance in Abuja while answering questions from reporters. “Intending pilgrims can apply for a refund if they so desire but for those who are interested in keeping their money with various State Boards for next Hajj, they should be rest assured that criteria would be first come first serve, because they will be given priority above others who are going to pay fresh for 2021 insha Allah,” Yakassai said. “Let me use this opportunity to reach out to the intending pilgrims for Hajj 2020 to accept the decision of the Kingdom to limit the performance of Hajj this year to those who are already in the Kingdom, this should be taken in good faith and as an act of Allah”. Yakassai stressed that NAHCON was working towards the establishment of Hajj Saving Scheme to ease the challenge of late and uncoordinated payment of deposits which largely impede on smooth preparation of the spiritual exercise annually.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .