Anambra monarchs demand to dredge of River Niger, commend FG over the bridge, others Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC) of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital (NAUTH), Nnewi, Anambra State, Dr. Joe Ugboaja, has said that the carefree attitude of Nigerians is responsible for the increasing cases of coronavirus in the country. Ugboaja, who is Director of Clinical Services, Research and Training, as well as Chairman, COVID-19 Task Force of the hospital, stated this at the weekend while fielding questions from newsmen at Nnewi on activities of the Task Force. He urged Nigerians to take the fight against the virus more seriously, saying the call became necessary in view of the rising number of cases as a result of the ongoing community spread. He recommended stricter compliance with the COVID-19 preventive measures, especially the use of face masks and maintaining physical distancing among members of the public. “It is unfortunate and worrisome that even in the face of escalating infections, most people still go about their businesses as if nothing is happening.  Time has come for everybody to take responsibility for containing the spread of the virus. This is the only way we can arrest it and flatten the curve. “The ‘I don’t care’ attitude of members of the public is largely responsible for the increasing number of cases being presented at the hospital for management,” Ugboaja noted. He warned that if nothing was urgently done to reverse the trend, the hospital would soon be overwhelmed with cases of COVID-19 and would be unable to help going forward. In another development, Anambra State traditional rulers have urged the Federal Government to dredge the River Niger at Onitsha to enhance economic and commercial activities in the South East and its neighbouring states. While calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to make the Onitsha Sea Port functional to ease transportation and distribution of goods to the hinterlands, they commended the President for efforts towards completing the Second Niger Bridge at Onitsha. The monarchs, who met Prince Arthur Eze at the palace of the traditional ruler of Ukwulu Kingdom in Dunukofia Council Area, Igwe Peter Uyanwa, applauded Buhari for striving to develop the South East region that had been neglected by previous administrations. Igwe Uyanwa, who is Chairman of Anambra Central Traditional Rulers Council, and host of the meeting, commended Buhari for the construction work on the second Niger Bridge, the Onitsha-Owerri and Enugu-Onitsha expressways, as well as the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, among others. While also commending Eze for his assistance, he urged the philanthropist to convey their goodwill messages to President Buhari for the work he was doing in the zone, while Eze promised to lead them to Abuja to present the region’s challenges to the presidency soon. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .