• Omobude urges electorate to vote wisely, cleric alleges threat to life
• Oshiomhole’s antics to deceive people at every election will fail, says PDP Edo State Governor and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate in the September 19 governorship election, Godwin Obaseki, has called for peace among political actors ahead of the poll. Obaseki made the call this during a visit to religious leaders including Catholic Archbishop of Benin, Augustine Obiora Akubueze, Margaret Idahosa of Church of God Mission International, and Reverend Felix Omobude of the New Covenant Gospel Church, who is also President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN). He was accompanied on the visit by his wife, Betsy, Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie and Chief of Staff (COS), Osaze Uzamere, among and other top government officials. “We need peace in Edo State at this time and at all times. As you are all witnesses to the buildup of tensions more than ever before, we need God’s guidance and prayers to ensure that the desire of those that don’t wish Nigeria and Edo State well is not fulfilled,” he said. Obaseki also condoled with Omobude over the death of his mother, the late Deaconess Aikpitanyi Omobude. Omobude urged politicians to play by the rules with the understanding that power comes from God Almighty. Besides, a Benin City-based pastor and General Overseer of Grace Chapel International, Pastor Godstime Oshodin, had alleged threat to his life and apologised to Edo people at home and in the Diaspora over a perceived derogatory political comment during a Church service. He stated this when he visited the Edo State chapter of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and sought protection of security agencies in the state over alleged threat to his life and family members over his recent comments at a Church service. Meanwhile, the state chapter of PDP, yesterday, said former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole’s deceit and attempt to hoodwink the electorate ahead of the governorship election would fail, insisting that Edo people were now wiser. State Publicity Secretary of the party, Chris Nehikhare, who stated this at a media briefing in Benin City, said Oshiomhole’s campaign of calumny against Ize-Iyamu in 2016 was still fresh in the minds of Edo people. He added that Edo people could not trust the APC and Oshiomhole because they had disparaged and publicly campaigned against Ize-Iyamu during the 2016 governorship election only to eat their words while campaigning for the September 19 poll. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .