… Threaten To Renew Hostilities Niger Delta ex-militants, under the auspices of the 21st Century Youths of the Niger Delta and Agitators with Conscience  (21st CYNDAC), has warned of renewed hostilities in the region, if the Federal Government continues to renege on the agreement reached with leaders of the region. They frowned at the Federal Government’s delay in reaching an agreement with the Pan Niger Delta Elders’ Forum (PANDEF) for a critical and holistic look towards a peaceful resolution of the myriads of problems facing the region. A statement signed by ‘General’ Izon Ebi, on behalf of the group, urged the Federal Government to revisit the 16-point agenda tabled by the elders, or risk another major crisis in the region that may cripple the country’s fragile economy. They also declared total support for Gbaramatu kingdom’s call on Federal Government to keep to the agreement. The statement made available to The Guardian in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, read: “It is rather unfortunate that the goose that lays the eggs for all the nation to enjoy is left to wallow in abject poverty and neglect. “It can be said without fear of contradiction that all the billionaires in this country can trace the source of their wealth to Niger Delta communities. But all they have to show for it is environmental degradation, and stark poverty that constantly stares the inhabitants in the face.” The group of agitators lamented the abysmal role of state and federal legislators, governors and those elected in positions of authorities from the region, who they said are scared and totally not in tune with the people’s needs and expectations. “It speaks negatively of government that when the oil taps are on and gas flares are burning, every agreement is suspended, until the taps are off again for another round of negotiations and agreements. ’The 21st Century youths of the Niger Delta and agitators with conscience, as well as the people of Niger Delta are tired of this cycle of motion without progress, while outsiders are the main beneficiaries of the wealth of our region… “We use this platform to urge government at both the federal and state levels to build bridges of mutual trust and understanding with High Chief Tompolo, as it will further cement the peace in the oil region.” [aa] To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .