 Mamman Daura  It cautioned that equity should not be sacrificed on the altar of parochialism since it was the rotational arrangement that produced the incumbent president in 2015. Reacting to comments credited to Mamman Daura that 2023 presidency should not be based on rotation but on competence, Ohanaeze which agreed that competence was essential for the office of the president, stated however, that it had been jettisoned in considering the country’s past rulers. Wondering why Daura should make competence an issue at the moment, it insisted that Ndigbo have several competent men and women that could lead the country as president and as such, the zone was not prepared to give anything less. President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who spoke through his Media Aide, Emeka Attamah, insisted that it was the turn of the South “Where we have abundant competent individuals who can steer the ship of this country, particularly in the South East.” He reminded that one of the reasons certain persons ganged up and removed Goodluck Jonathan was on the allegation of violating the rotation principle and wondered why it should not be replicated in 2023. He said, “Now that it is the turn of the South they no longer see it in that context. Daura’s comment is self-serving. He should have said this before the 2019 elections. They ganged up against former President Jonathan because they believed it was the turn of the North to produce the President. “Having benefited from his nephew as President, he now wants the principle of rotation jettisoned because it is now the turn of the South,” he said. Nwodo argued that President Buhari was neither the most qualified Nigerian when he ascended the presidency, nor proved to be the most competent. “Are the service chiefs the most competent among their colleagues to warrant their being retained beyond their tenure? Now that it is the turn of the South, precisely South East, Daura is mouthing qualification and competence. “Equity is a constant flagship for peace and good governance. Without it, there will be continued agitations and crisis. At his age, Daura should stand for equity and fairness. “Moreover, his stand goes against the grain of the nation’s constitution, which stipulates equality for all peoples and sections of the country,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .