Tributes have continued to pour in to mourn the death of Gokada CEO Fahim Saleh who was brutally murdered in his apartment in the United States on Tuesday. New York Police Department said Saleh’s corpse was found limbless and headless in a building on E. Houston St. at Suffolk St. on the Lower Eastside, New York. But the dismembered body parts were found at the scene of the murder. He bought the condo in 2019 for $2.2 million, New York Post reported on Tuesday. NYPD spokesman Sgt. Carlos Nieves said all of Saleh’s body parts were found at the scene but did not give other details while investigations are ongoing. “We have a torso, a head that’s been removed, arms, and legs. Everything is still on the scene. We don’t have a motive,” Nieves said. Reacting to their CEO’s death, Gokada in a statement described Saleh’s death as a “sudden and tragic loss”. The company said “Fahim was a great leader, inspiration and positive light for all of us. “Fahim’s vision and belief in us will be with us forever, and we will miss him dearly. Thank you for understanding as we get through this.” The company commiserated with Saleh’s friends, family and all those feeling the pain and heartbreak they are currently experiencing. Gokada said all updates and changes will be communicated with the public as Saleh remains “Forever in our hearts.” Hussain M. Elius who co-founded of Bangladesh company, Pathao, with Saleh said he was shocked to hear of Saleh’s demise. “We are shocked and saddened to hear the reports of the death of Fahim Saleh, one of the founding members of the Pathao team,” Elius said. Elius stated that Fahim believed in the potential for technology to transform lives in Bangladesh and beyond. “He saw the promise in us when all we had was a common purpose and a shared vision. He was, and will forever remain, an incredible inspiration for Pathao and our entire ecosystem,” ELius said. Muyiwa Matuluko, the editor-in-chief of Nigeria-based tech media firm Techpoint Africa reacted to Saleh’s death saying, “this is crazy.” Co-founder of Tech Next, David Afolayan said Saleh was open, warm and very approachable going by the few conversations they had with him. He prayed that “May God comfort his family and bring the perpetrators to justice! The convener of Lagos MSMEs Bootcamp Ayo Bankole wondered what Saleh, who he described as  ‘a passionate entrepreneur’, could have done to deserve such a brutal murder. “A young man living the life & full of promise. Who could he have engaged that is so evil to cut him to pieces?,” Bankole tweeted. Media manager to Nigerian online payment platform Paystack Mohini Ufeli said “It’s tough enough just to lose him, but to have him ripped away in such a manner… Broken heart.” PR expert working for Nigerian-based tech firm Wimbart, Maria Adediran, said she was really shocked to hear about what happened to Fahim Saleh. She condoled with his family and the Gokada team. See more reactions below: My heart goes out to the families of the two people who died recently. Fahim Saleh, 33 year old tech entrepreneur and CEO of Gokada. He was found dead in his apartment in New York. Gokada was one of my favourite startups to watch in 2018. pic.twitter.com/Jt1aU0F3EH — Babatunde Akin-Moses (@AkinMoses1) July 15, 2020  Fahim Saleh, Gokada CEO, found beheaded in NYC apartment. pic.twitter.com/BKXQb5UcXc — #Lady Eliaza (@lizzybeezz) July 15, 2020  My thoughts and prayers are with family and loved ones of Fahim Saleh, the founder of Gokada. Losing a loved one is already hard enough, having to know his life was taken and in this way is even much more painful. — Tola (@adetolaov) July 15, 2020  It is a really a sad day for Nigeria, Techpreneurs, Gokada & the world. Rest In Peace Fahim Saleh  #Gokada pic.twitter.com/URNH4c4MCW — Ọládélé #StaySafeStayAtHome (@TheOladeile) July 15, 2020  Gokada owner, Fahim Saleh brutally dismembered with an electric saw inside his New York condo, damn. This is some mob or mafia style execution sending a message or it might just be a serial killer who knows, its America anything is possible. — Benue Breed  (@oyimzy) July 15, 2020  We will miss him greatly in Lagos Nigeria, I just hope the American government would bring Justice to Fahim Saleh's family. #FahimSaleh — Sandra Agudosi (@SAgudosi) July 15, 2020  When I heard of the death of "Fahim Saleh" I was as shocked as you are coz he died in the most gruesome way with an electric saw…. That's bad…..RIP pic.twitter.com/ef4H3WmTxR — yinka jimoh (@yinkajimohsblog) July 15, 2020  Rest in peace Fahim Saleh.I'm writing this from a place of pain and loss. You were such an inspiration to me and my team.Just last week Uzo and I were on a call with Fahim listening to an offer to absorb us into Gokada and a possible buy out. pic.twitter.com/z2nT8Wfnzi — Abraham Ojes (@abrahamojes) July 15, 2020  Rest in peace Tolulope Arotile, and Fahim Saleh. I pray God gives your families and friends the courage to bear the loss. — Dr. Dípò Awójídé (@OgbeniDipo) July 15, 2020  The remains of Fahim Saleh, founder of GOKADA. May his soul Rest In Peace. We live in a cruel world pic.twitter.com/LIgjeLO4ae — Dr PamPam | Omo Iya Ologi (@UnclePamilerin) July 15, 2020  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .