Adoke …As Magu Blames Brain Drain On Corruption
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), yesterday, denied dropping charges against a former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Mohammed Adoke. This is as the Acting chairman of the Commission, Ibrahim Magu, has decried the rate at which professionals were departing the country to seek greener pastures abroad. Magu spoke yesterday at the Commission’s Headquarters in Abuja when he hosted members of the National Association of Barbers and Cosmetology Employers of Nigeria (NABCEN). According to him, many Nigerians now prefer working abroad because they could no longer stand the effect of corruption on the economy. He disclosed that the government has begun moves to convince Nigerian professionals working abroad to return home and contribute to the development of the nation. He said the EFCC needed the involvement of trade unions and individuals to drive home its message of zero tolerance for corruption in the country. The Commission in a statement by its spokesperson, Dele Oyewale, said Adoke was still undergoing trial. The statement read: “The attention of the EFCC has been drawn to some media reports claiming that the Commission has dropped charges of money laundering against former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Mohammed Adoke. “The EFCC wishes to make it abundantly clear that Mr. Adoke is standing trial in two separate courts: Federal High Court, Abuja, before Justice Inyang Ekwo in Suit Number: FHC/ABJ/CR/39/2017 and FCT High Court, Gwagwalada, before Justice Idris Kutigi in Suit Number: FCT/CR/151/2020. “He was re-arraigned alongside an Abuja-based businessman, Aliyu Abubakar, before Justice Ekwo on June 17, 2020, on seven-count charges bordering on money laundering. The re-arraignment was occasioned by the transfer of the case from Justice Binta Nyako, before whom he was originally arraigned on February 8, 2020. Adoke was equally arraigned before Justice Kutigi alongside others on January 23, 2020 on 42-count charges bordering on the Malabu Oil scam. “There is another subsisting case involving Malabu Oil & Gas Limited, Aliyu Abubakar and five companies allegedly involved in money laundering charges before Justice Ekwo. They were arraigned on Wednesday, July 1, 2020 in Suit Number: FHC/ABJ/CR/268/2016.” Oyewale noted that media reports about the removal of Adoke’s name from the ‘Wanted Persons’ List’ by the International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) were unnecessary and misleading, saying he had been arrested and was already facing trial in Nigeria. “A suspect cannot be on a ‘Wanted Persons’ List’ and be facing trial in court at the same time. The EFCC wishes to reiterate its commitment to global best practices in its operations and would not be distracted from its assigned mandate of ridding the nation of all forms of economic and financial crimes,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .