Queen Joy In recent times, child abuse has become a major issue in Nigeria with many recorded cases. In developed and developing countries, teenage pregnancy continues to receive increased attention as a result of the rate at which young people engage in sexual activities, which mostly lead to unplanned and unintended pregnancies. Speaking on the development, queen Joy Nwafor Chwukwu winner Miss Pride of Nigeria Ambassador 2019, said, “A child is a priceless jewel that do not need any emotional trauma at her early stage. Through my pet project, a programme is already mapped out to tackle this menace. Although child abuse occurs in Nigeria, it has received little attention.” According to her, the initiative aims at fighting against sexual abuse and teenage pregnancy, as well as encourages victims to come out and tell their stories through a radio show, The Psychologist. “My intentions is to use the platform to address child molestation and teenage pregnancy in our society, to expose sexual predators and create a support system for victims. Through this project, we want to get the authorities to do more to support children against sexual abuse,” she hinted. Billed to go on air after COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the programme is designed as a radio talk show and it will feature a special segment, where real life stories of people that have experienced child molestation and teenage pregnancy will share their experiences every week. “The stories are real life, heart breaking stories of people that have experienced child sexual molestation and teenage pregnancy while growing up. We have a team of researchers that source for true-life stories of child/sexual abuse and molestation,” she noted. However, Joy said informed that the foundation would not be doing this alone, as it intends to partnership other institutions, including the Nigerian Police, Abia State Government and other NGOs. “Joy Chukwu Foundation is on a war against child abuse and teenage pregnancy and to advocate for the sexually abused children, victims, and teenage pregnancy,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .