Sir Elton John | Evening Standard 73-year-old Grammy award-winning singer Sir Elton John has recalled how he ‘saw God’ after smoking weed during a creative music session. The “Candle In The Wind” hitmaker revealed that the experience happened on a night when he smoked weed and tripped out while listening to electronic dance music. The combination of the high running through his veins and the music beats running through his mind left the singer in a state of bliss. According to him, this resulted in him seeing God before his eyes after being taken to a ‘higher place’. The soundtrack which raised him higher than he had ever been was German dance album Trans-Europe Express by Kraftwerk. Speaking about his ‘trip’ on his Apple Music series Rocket Hour, the singing legend admitted that it’s a record he will never forget. He explained: “I love that because it was the first record I ever heard that really sounded German as far as pop music went. I remember smoking a joint and listening to it on really loudspeakers and I thought I saw God during that album.” The “Rocket Man” who has been sober for over thirty years now has been very opened about his drug abuse in the past He has always shared that his life has been better the minute he decided to drop alcohol and drug abuse. Last year, the singer shared his experience of recovery 29 years after giving up substance abuse. Taking to Instagram, he revealed that saying the words “I need help” out loud saved his life. The star penned: “29 years ago today, I was a broken man. “I finally summoned up the courage to say three words that would change my life: ‘I need help’. “Thank you to all the selfless people who have helped me on my journey through sobriety. I am eternally grateful.” John is married to his husband David Furnish and he recently celebrated his 73rd birthday in lockdown. It was earlier reported that the singer was forced to lay off long-serving bandmates and a number of household staff after suffering losses of tens of millions of pounds due to the coronavirus pandemic. He reportedly lost £60 million after being forced to cancel or postpone 34 of his US dates for the farewell tour, which is to be his last before retirement.