 Okezie Ikpeazu  The internal crisis had degenerated into acrimonious public debates between ‘important members’ and those described as ‘segment of the party.’In a statement issued at the weekend by senators Theodore Orji, Enyinnaya Abaribe, Adolphus Wabara, Acho Nwakanma and Onyema Ugochukwu, the elders urged all concerned to allow peace to reign in the party and interest of the state. “As elders and members of Board of Trustees (BoT) and National Executive Committee (NEC) from Abia State, we met on Monday, July 20, 2020 to review issues with a view to finding ways to calm tempers,” they said. The Guardian learnt that the crisis resulted from comments credited to Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Chinedum Orji, who during a visit to Orji Uzor Kalu of the APC at Abuja after his (Kalu’s) release from prison, invited the former governor, to take over the leadership of the state from Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of the PDP. The Speaker’s invitation to Kalu attracted severe criticisms from some PDP members with some demanding an apology for inviting Kalu or resign his position as Speaker. But the reacting to the call, the Speaker described those asking for his apology or resignation as the ranting of political lackeys and jobbers, insisting that he would neither apologise nor resign. He added that he owed nobody any such apology or explanation except Ikpeazu and his fellow lawmakers. The PDP elders attributed the acrimony and open quarrels generated by the Speaker’s visit and reaction to Ikpeazu’s absence during his treatment for COVID-19 infection. However, after reviewing the exchanges, the PDP elders concluded that the disagreements were unnecessary and were probably instigated by the opposition to undermine the unity of the party for their own gains. “We disapprove of the bitter public exchanges that sought to incite divisions within the party, our government and our state. We are certain that those unfortunate exchanges do not represent the true situation in our party, which is united in solidarity with Governor Ikpeazu. “We, therefore, urge the antagonists on all sides to ceasefire immediately. We believe that whatever issues anyone may have can be addressed within the party, instead of in public debates that project a bad image of our party and government. “We urge all members to wake up to the challenges we face, especially from opposition parties that are trying to revive through federal support,” they stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .