FRSC deploys 1,354 marshals for Sallah Blaze from a tanker explosion has left one person dead and many with degrees of burns in Kano State. The Guardian gathered that the 33,000-litre tanker laden with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) went into flames about midnight of Monday at Kofar Ruwa branch of Audu Manager filling station while offloading the product. Although there has been no official confirmation of the cause of the incidence, the fire razed the station before the arrival of the fire service. An attendant with the station told The Guardian under anonymity that the explosion affected several staff and passers-by. “The unfortunate fire razed our station last night. It was sudden. When they were offloading about midnight, one of the tanker assistants tried to measure the fuel in the reservoir using a metal rod, but he accidentally touched a high-tension electric wire. The touch sparked immediate and everywhere was in flames,” the attendant said. Confirming the development, spokesman of the Kano State Fire Service, Muhammad Ibrahim, told journalists that incident claimed one person and left some injured. MEANWHILE, as part of measures to ensure an accident-free Eid-el-Kabir celebration, the Kano command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has deployed 1,354 personnel on major highways in the state. The command said the deployment comprised 741 regular and 613 special marshals for the special operations, which commenced on July 22. A statement signed by the command’s spokesperson noted that the personnel were directed to ensure safe and smooth vehicular traffic flow as well as attend promptly to road traffic crash victims. The release added that additional 16 patrol vehicles, three ambulances, one heavy-duty truck and other operational equipment were deployed to facilitate effective operations. It read in part, “The main focus of the special operations is overloading violations and all life-threatening traffic infractions. Others include mass sensitisation campaigns and post-crash emergency response. “The operation also concentrates on ensuring compliance with the new guidelines on inter-state travels issued by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19.” “The command, together with all the transport unions and Kano State Government, is enforcing compliance with the guidelines in motor parks and various terminals across the state.” The Sector Commander, Zubairu Mato, called on drivers, passengers and motor park workers to support and comply with the guidelines, particularly on the use of hand sanitisers before boarding, use of face masks and ensuring social distancing while on board to curb the spread of COVID-19 while on inter-state travels. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .