 Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah (L) chases the ball watched by Brighton’s English defender Dan Burn (R) during the English Premier League football match between Brighton and Hove Albion and Liverpool at the American Express Community Stadium in Brighton, southern England on July 8, 2020. (Photo by DANIEL LEAL-OLIVAS / POOL / AFP)  The English champions move onto 92 points with three wins from their final four games enough to break Manchester City’s record of 100 points from two seasons ago. Jurgen Klopp’s men were quick off the mark with two goals in the first eight minutes to end a run of five games without a goal away from home either side of the coronavirus shutdown. Brighton’s desire to play out from the back has been one of the hallmarks of Graham Potter’s first season in charge and the Seagulls look certain to meet their target of staying in the division with a nine-point cushion over the bottom three. But the hosts were twice caught out by Liverpool’s press to leave themselves too much to do despite another promising performance. Salah remained in the hunt for a third Golden Boot in as many seasons as a Liverpool player as he slotted home Naby Keita’s cross to open the scoring. Two minutes later the Reds robbed possession again in the Brighton half and after Salah was held up, Henderson curled home a brilliant shot into the far corner for a rare goal in an inspirational season for the Liverpool captain. Rather than letting the floodgates open, Brighton showed impressive resolve to then take the game to their illustrious visitors. Neco Williams made a brilliant block on his first Premier League start to deny Leandro Trossard a quick reply before Alisson Becker saved from Neal Maupay. Brighton got their reward just before half-time when Trossard connected sweetly with Tariq Lamptey’s cross to halve the deficit. Dan Burn wasted a huge opportunity to bring the hosts level after the break as he failed to hit the target with the goal gaping. Salah was more clinical when he headed home Andy Robertson’s cross at the near post for his 19th Premier League goal of the season to move within three of Jamie Vardy in the race for the Golden Boot. But the Egyptian then missed two big chances in stoppage time for his third Liverpool hat-trick and to further cut Vardy’s lead at the top of the scoring charts as Mat Ryan flicked his first effort over the bar before Salah headed over with the final touch of the game.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .