Previous winners of star prizes in the Bag of Goodies national consumer promo Season 1 done by Dangote Cement Plc in 2019 have expressed excitement over the approaching Season 2 version, which is billed to commence nationwide this month. Star winners, among the 40 lucky individuals across Nigeria, who were each presented with a brand new car, also commended the cement manufacturing firm and its chairman, Aliko Dangote, for transforming their lives through the promo to improve lives of 21 million customers. Some of the enthusiastic winners who were contacted by telephone hailed the sincerity of Dangote Group in handing over the cars to them, and urged Nigerians to participate in the Season 2 promo. The first car prize winner in Season 1, Delta State-based cement retailer, Benjamin Igherighe, urged the public to take advantage of the promo to buy cement for their building projects and at the same time stand a chance of winning life-changing prizes. Benjamin said the car has changed his life and business. “People stop me on the road to make inquiries about cement supply and then place orders. It has become a marketing tool which attracts attention and increases sales for me. The branded car has made me an ambassador of Dangote Cement and I keep telling people that the company stands for quality, durability and trust,” he added. Also, an elated 64-year-old bricklayer, Mr Iyowun Ezekiel, from Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, who won a brand-new GAC saloon car, said his status has been elevated with the win. He said many of his clients have switched to Dangote Cement, which, he insisted, is the only brand he uses at his various project sites. He also thanked Aliko Dangote, who he described as a humane person with the welfare of Nigerians in his heart. Iyowun, who described himself as a Dangote Cement ambassador, pledged to participate in the Season 2 promo to enable him to win another star prize, among other prizes. Under the new promo, 1,000 Nigerians are expected to win a star prize of N1 million each over a period of 16 weeks, among other available prizes of tricycles, refrigerators, television sets, generators, goodies packs, smaller monetary prizes and airtime.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .