Computer Professionals, Registration Council of Nigeria (CPN), has said that Fifth Generation (5G) technology is safe and very viable to transform the economy.
  
President, Chairman-in-Council, Prof. Charles Uwadia, who stated this, added that there are no adverse health implications with the 5G technology.
Uwadia, during a virtual meeting, stressed the need for 5G, noting that Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in Nigeria contributes more to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the nation than the oil and gas industry.
  
According to him, the adoption of 5G, which has been touted as the next frontier of investment, has the potential to drive economic growth and social inclusion.He noted that in response to the various conspiracy theories surrounding the 5G network, CPN, in its yearly general meeting, which would be held on July 9, would address issues around the technology.
 
The virtual event themed; ‘Adoption of 5G in Nigeria: The Technological and Regulatory Challenges’ would have IT Professionals, startups, teachers, among others in attendance.
 
“As transformatory as the 5G agenda is, its adoption is not without challenges. It is for this reason that the 2020 IT Professionals’ Assembly would be considering the technological and regulatory challenges associated with the adoption of 5G vis-a-vis the future of frequency bands, deployment and coverage, device support, and security and privacy. Others are digital infrastructure challenges, out-dated regulatory policies, removal of impediments to the expansion of digital infrastructure, commitment to actions that promote the long-term growth of the digital economy, mis-givings and health concerns against it, among other issues,” Uwadia said.
  
He said the technology would benefit Nigeria, as its network is an enhancement of the previous one, and as such, would build on what exists and has capacity to accommodate more users.
  
He, however, noted that CPN would look extensively into the overview of the current technology to measure its impact within the nation in the lens of the introduction of a sophisticated one.
  
He further explained that the theme was inspired by the inter-relationship between computing and telecommunications. “There is a thin line between computing and telecommunication. The 5G at a glance looks like communications, but there is so much computing around it, like programming and networking,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .