As world airlines gradually return to operations after the coronavirus-induced lockdown, demand in air cargo is also beginning to improve despite subsisting capacity crunch.
 
The International Air Transport Association (IATA) data for global air freight markets released yesterday, showed that capacity remains unable to meet demand as a result of the loss of belly cargo operations on passenger aircraft that have been parked.
 
Global demand, measured in cargo tonne-kilometres (CTKs), fell by 20.3 per cent in May (-21.5 per cent for international operations) compared to the previous year. That is an improvement from the 25.6 per cent year-on-year drop recorded in April.  Asia-Pacific airlines saw demand for international air cargo fall by 21.3 per cent in May 2020 compared to the same period a year earlier. This was a solid improvement over the 25.2 per cent drop in April. Seasonally adjusted freight volumes also rebounded slightly in May and have now reached 75 per cent of their pre-COVID-19 crisis levels. Shipments of personal protective equipment (PPE) are helping support airlines in the region. International capacity decreased by 31 per cent.
 
North American carriers reported a single-digit fall in international cargo demand of 9.0 per cent year-on-year in May. This was the smallest contraction of all regions except Africa. The resilient performance is due to shorter and less stringent lockdowns in certain regions, the large freighter fleets of a few regional airlines as well as robust US-China trade volumes. Demand on large Asia–North America route was down only 0.4 per cent year-on-year in May. International capacity decreased by 28 per cent.
 
European carriers reported a 29.7 per cent annual drop in international cargo volumes in May, the weakest performance of all regions. Limited manufacturing output and lockdowns through to mid-May contributed to the weak performance. International capacity decreased 40.1 per cent. 
 
Middle Eastern carriers reported a decline of 25 per cent year-on-year in May, a significant improvement from the 36.2 per cent fall in April. Despite a number of carriers in the region maintaining some cargo capacity, traffic on all key routes was low. International capacity decreased by 24.4 per cent.
 
Latin American carriers posted a 22.1 per cent drop in year-on-year international demand. This was a significant improvement from the 40.7 per cent decline in April. The COVID-19 crisis is particularly challenging for airlines based in Latin America owing to strict lock-down measures. International capacity decreased 39.5 per cent. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .