The police, yesterday, paraded a nurse, Mrs Ogundimu Monilola, accused of helping a 44-year-old pastor of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Ogo Oluwa parish, Olokuta, Ogun State, Oluwafemi Oyebola, to procure family planning care for his 24-year-old daughter, whom he impregnated three times. Monilola, who claimed to be Assistant Chief Matron at the State General Hospital, Idiroko, Ogun State, said she is also the health worker in charge of the family planning service at the facility. She denied carrying out any abortion on Pastor Oyebola’s daughter, but the police said she had in her statement earlier admitted
performing abortions on the girl who opted to remain anonymous. She said she was on duty at a particular day when the man presented the girl for family planning at the hospital, claiming the girl was his house help, while a man, who identified himself as James, stood as the husband of the girl. According to her, she never knew the family planning sought by the girl was targeted at shielding the incestuous lifestyle of the pastor. She also declared that the family planning service sought and obtained by the girl at the facility was official and well documented, explaining that it is legitimate for any female that is 18 years and above to seek and obtain family planning care from a hospital. Nurse Monilola was paraded before reporters at the Ogun State Police Command headquarters, Eleweran, with Pastor Oyebola by the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson. Ebrimson said the offence allegedly committed by Oyebola is “incest” and that he had been perpetrating it with his daughter since 2015, leading to three pregnancies, termination of the three and subsequent family planning for the girl to step up the incestuous lifestyle without any risk of further pregnancy until the secret leaked in 2020. The pastor, who claimed to be the leader of a deliverance team at the Ogo-Oluwa parish of CAC, admitted that the incestuous acts with his daughter was a “mistake resulting from a spiritual attack.” He explained that an “unclean spirit” lured him into the affairs with his daughter and appealed to Nigerians, the government and the Christian community to forgive him. It was gathered that the illicit affairs burst after the daughter, who had recently finished her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), was unwilling to stay further with her father in the same house. When the pastor continued to oppose her resolve to leave home for
Lagos, the girl ran away and reported her ordeals to a Non-Governmental Organisation, the Advocacy for Children And Vulnerable Persons Network. The NGO eventually led her to the Owode-Egbado Divisional headquarters, where she reported that her father had been forcefully having carnal knowledge of her since 2015 when she was 19-year-old and shortly after the demise of her mother. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .