The House of Representatives Committee on Communications Deputy Chairman and member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Unyime Idem, has advocated adoption of Option A4 in choosing representatives during elections. He stated this yesterday while addressing the people of Usung Atiat at Government Primary School who gathered to take part in a mock election for the purpose of producing a consensus candidate out of the three contenders. Idem, who commended his people for the peaceful behaviour and transparent manner in which they chose their councillorship candidate in the 2020 local council elections, said that Option A4 process of election had the capacity to ensure that everyone is given the sense of belonging, while the most popular candidate is chosen through a transparent, rancour-free and peaceful manner. “It is a thing of joy that we are gathered here as a people to choose who will contest the position of councillor zoned to us. It is important to note that power resides with the people and only they have the mandate to choose who they want to represent them. “I wish to advocate for the use of Option A4 in choosing our representatives. This mode of selection is transparent, rancour-free and flawless, saves resources, time and energy. It also confers legitimacy and gives a sense of belonging to the people who have the power to choose their leaders. It also allows for consensus candidate, building of trust and promotion of inclusiveness, unity and fairness. “Let me laud my people for their peaceful conduct during the mock election. I urge other political wards in Akwa Ibom State and the country at large to emulate the exemplary conduct of the Usung Atiat people in leadership choice. This is the way to go,” he said. The lawmaker further said that Option A4 would deepen democratic ideas, make the people have a voice in who represents them, reduce political tension and promotes win-win situation, which was lacking in the larger political terrain. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .