The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Mashi Council of Katsina State has asked House of Representatives member, Mansur Mashi, to retract comments made against President Muhammadu Buhari or risk recall. Speaking on behalf of some members of the ruling party at a press conference, the chairman, Armaya’u Doka, said the comment belittled the APC and members of his constituency in Katsina. Doka said the lawmaker, who represents Mashi/Dutsi Federal Constituency, had said that the only way Nigeria could progress was for Buhari to go the way of Umaru Yar’Adua who died in office. His words, “The honourable said Buhari had to leave the scene the way the late Yar’Adau did, so that his vice, (Prof. Yemi) Osinbajo, would take over, and that such was the only way Nigeria could make progress.” According to the party chair, the lawmaker likened the APC to a football team that had lost steam, “and may not be able to win majority votes in the next general election.” He also said that Mashi, in an audio recording making the rounds in the state, described his constituents, who voted him into office, as ignorant and bunch of illiterates. The chairman wondered why a lawmaker elected on APC platform should make such comments on Buhari, his constituency members and the party that brought him to office. “The audio of what the lawmaker said is out there for all to listen to. By the grace of God, APC will win in the 2023 general elections and the party will only continue to grow stronger. “We call on the APC to call him to order and the National Assembly to suspend him for making such comments. “If our call is not heeded, we, as members of his constituency, have the right to take necessary action that is within the ambit of the law. And when we begin to take action, nobody should come and beg or ask us to refrain from what we are doing, as we have allowed avenue for action to be taken against him.” When contacted, Mashi said he would reserve his comments since the matter was under investigation by the police. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .