PHOTO: TWITTER/FCCPC NIGERIA The social media was abuzz in the last few days with the news of the arrest and arraignment of Dr Anuoluwapo Adepoju of Med Contour Services Limited, a Lagos-based medical doctor, by the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, FCCPC, over the death of one of her clients, Mrs Nneka Onwuzuligbo. According to the FCCPC, Dr Adepoju and her hospital were arraigned for allegedly obstructing the investigation by the commission into the case which led to the closure of the hospital for more than two months now. However, the events of the last few days by the FCCPC and its chief executive officer, who is also the prosecuting counsel, Mr Babatunde Irukera, have drawn the curious eyes of the public over the handling of the case. The recent actions of Mr Irukera have raised eyebrows and questions are being asked as to his personal involvement in the case which borders on a vendetta. Some of the questions begging for answers over the case are: How else can we explain why the FCCPC would get involved in a case that is outside its jurisdiction? Why would Mr Irukera, the CEO of a Federal Government agency, personally come to Lagos from Abuja and invade Dr Adepoju’s clinic with a team of police officers without a search warrant or any legal backing of any sort? Why does he appear to have an obsessive interest in Dr Adepoju’s case? In whose interest is he hell-bent on circumventing the law just to embarrass Dr Adepoju? Why would a self-acclaimed lawyer act in this manner? One would think the involvement of the CEO of the FCCPC will ensure that the agency follows the tenets of the rule of law. Instead, they did a hatchet man’s job; including totally misidentifying Dr Adepoju. To compound matters, together with erring officers of the police, he orchestrated the illegal arrest of Dr Adepoju by the police to make her spend three days in the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti. He personally mandated DCP Longe not to grant Dr Adepoju administrative bail and claimed the orders to lock her up were supposedly from the Inspector-General of Police. What do we make of the fact that Mr Irukera goes around intimidating innocent people using the Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo’s name? Is the vice president aware that a public official is making such vile threats with his good name? Mr Irukera filed information about Dr Adepoju since the 3rd of June 2020 and did not serve her a copy as demanded by law. She only became aware of the charges in court on the 3rd of July 2020. He was duly scolded by Justice Muhammad Liman of the Federal High Court, Lagos for failure to duly and properly serve Dr Adepoju the frivolous allegation levelled against her before the beginning of the trial. Before Dr Adepoju was arraigned, Mr Irukera went ahead to give the press uncertified court copies of proof of evidence, and affidavit of completion of the investigation. Mr Irukera has made himself the regulator, enforcer, investigator, prosecutor and judge in this case. It is interesting to note that against all sense of decency, Mr Irukera has embarked on a social media trial of Dr Adepoju. He spends more time attempting to smear Dr Adepoju’s good name than actually facing the job he was put in office for! He is also prosecuting Dr Adepoju in the electronic, print and social media. It is high time the Honourable Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire and other relevant medical authorities cautioned Mr Irukera as he has no grounds to harass Dr Adepoju. Vice President Osinbajo should immediately call Mr Irukera to order. He should be compelled to stop dragging the name of a well-respected individual in the mud with his gutter tactics. This is also a clarion call on President Muhammadu Buhari to look into Mr Irukera’s activities as they are not befitting of the prestigious office which he holds. His actions bring disrepute to the efforts of Mr President to better the lot of Nigerians. God bless Nigeria. – Samson writes from Lagos, Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .