The Southerner Kaduna caucus in the House of Representatives rose from an emergency meeting yesterday with a fresh alarm of a plan by unidentified militia to wreak another mayhem in the area after the Sallah festivity. Spokesperson for the group, Gideon Gwani, told reporters at the National Assembly complex that he was privy to information on the impending attacks. He called on the people to remain vigilant. The House Minority Whip condemned the persistent killings and kidnappings in the area, urging arrest, investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators. The lawmakers, drawn from the various ethnic, religious and political groups, identified causes of the persistent onslaughts and proffered a lasting solution. “It is no longer news that the people of southern Kaduna have become preys in their fatherland. They have consistently been invaded and slaughtered in cold blood, raped, killed and their properties destroyed and pillaged in public glare, with little success in investigating and apprehending the perpetrators of the said attacks. “As representatives of the people, we have identified herdsmen/farmers clashes, forceful land grabbing by non-natives, reprisal attacks, banditry and criminality as some of the major causes of the killings and hostilities in southern Kaduna,” they said. To the caucus, these problems can only be solved if the rule of law is allowed to take its full course.It noted: “Rule of Law entails adherence to the principles of supremacy of the law over all citizens and subjects in Nigeria, equality of all citizens and subjects before the law. “While we note that these attacks are deeply rooted and multi-faceted in nature, the failure to investigate arrest and prosecute the perpetrators has continued to embolden the attackers. “In these difficult times, statements by people in authority should serve to heal and unite the people, rather than inflame passion and justify the heinous acts.” In attendance at the briefing were Shehu Nicholas Garba (Jena’s/Sanga), Mukhtar Chawai Zakari (Kauru), Gabriel Zock (Kachia/Kagarko) and Amos Magaji (Zangon Kataf/Jaba) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .