 Ifeanyi Okowa  The suspended 1,300 civil servants in Delta State, who were disengaged in 2015, have once again appealed to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to reabsorb them for the sake of equity, as those employed were not part of those affected in the purge. The appeal, in a statement signed by Chairman, Suspended Civil Servants, Erhadje Clement and Secretary, Asini Victor, was predicated on the premise that a nine-man committee was earlier set up, screening done and report forwarded to office. They said that though the report proved that the disengaged workers were truly Deltans who were duly employed through normal and due process, they were alarmed to learn about unwholesome practices employed to use new set of people to replace them against the governor’s directive. The suspended workers, who warned that they might be further constrained to make their case global, said, “We are saddened by the Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu’s reactions and swift approach to debunk the allegation of irregularities, nepotism, favouritism, massive use of money and political affiliations to buy slots during the reinstatement process by the Civil Service Commission of those that were suspended in 2015.” “We demand that government should provide and publish in national dailies the Delta people that were reinstated and their National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) discharge certificates to know when they passed out from service and if they are qualified to have applied for the job as at the time of application in 2013. Besides, as students in exiting classes are set to resume on August 4, 2020, a total of 5,697 teachers from both public and private schools across the 25 local councils in the state have been trained by the state government on COVID-19 protocols. The training, which was organised by the Delta State Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education, in collaboration with Ministry of Health, was to ensure adequate safety of school children against contracting coronavirus. The Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Patrick Ukah, disclosed this in Asaba, while addressing teachers during a monitoring visit to St. Patrick’s College, Asaba, Oshimili South Local Council. He said his visit was informed by the need to encourage the teachers and to ascertain their level of commitment and participation in the training, as government would provide critical measures to avert the spread of COVID-19 in the wake of schools’ resumption. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s crude oil export terminal at Forcados in Delta State may be shut down as leaders of Ogulagha Kingdom in Burutu Council Area have warned that they would cripple oil activities in their domain over Federal Government’s alleged marginalisation and neglect. In an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari, dated July 24, 2020 and signed by Chief Igere Williams and 12 others, they said despite being one of the highest crude oil producer in the country comprising over 30 major communities and villages under HRM King Joseph I. Timiyan JP, government had continued to neglect them. They lamented that Ogulagha Kingdom had not benefited from Federal Government’s development projects despite their contribution to the growth of the Nigerian economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .