The Concerned Citizens of Edo State (CCES), yesterday, challenged candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the September 19 gubernatorial election, Osagie Ize- Iyamu, to show his achievements while he served as Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and Chief of Staff (CoS). The group noted that Ize-Iyamu and his supporters have merely been flaunting the backing of Federal Might, which they claim, would help them win the election. In a statement in Benin City yesterday, General Secretary of the group, Orobosa Igbinoba, said, “We are confident that President Muhammadu Buhari, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the nation’s security agencies will rise to the occasion to protect the wishes of Edo people. “The nation has enough challenges at the moment and the President will not allow the prevailing peace in Edo to be punctured because of the ambition of one candidate, knowing the regional and possible nationwide crises that could follow. “Clearly, Ize-Iyamu knows that his party, the APC does not have the latitude to win elections in Edo State. Instead of withdrawing from the race to save Edo people the trouble and the needless investment by their sponsors, they are relying on what they call Abuja’s backing.” He pointed out that Ize-Iyamu was a senior official in government when the College of Education, Abudu, the only institution of higher learning in Orhionmwon Council Area he claimed he hailed from, was mismanaged beyond redemption. Igbinoba stated that Ize-Iyamu was also a senior government official when the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) camp in Abudu, the headquarters of council area was relocated to Okada. “Let him point to one project he attracted to Orhionmwon for the eight years he served in government.” For the records, Governor Godwin Obaseki has revamped the College of Education in Abudu and Orhionmwon people are waiting for September 19 to vote him for a second term in office. “Obaseki also attracted the multi-billion naira rubber plantation project to Urhonigbe, which has engaged thousands of youths in the state,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .