The Oniru of Iruland, Lagos State, Gbolahan Lawal, has ordered the suspension of palace officials who slapped Tijani Oniru, son of the late king. In a viral video, Tijani was allegedly attacked by palace security officials over landed property owned by the family of the late monarch, but in a statement yesterday, the media office of the new Oniru said the monarch had ordered investigation into the incident, asking all parties to maintain peace. Lawal, a former commissioner for agriculture in the state, was crowned the king of Iruland last month after the demise of Abiodun Idowu Oniru, his predecessor, who joined the ancestors in 2019. The statement from the palace reads: “Yesterday afternoon, Sunday July 5, a rather regrettable incident occurred within the Oniru Estate neighbourhood (close to Millennium Estate Gates) which culminated in an altercation between some officials of Oniru’s palace and a group led by Prince Tijani Oniru. “A team of palace officials led by Prince Murisiku Ajasa were allegedly accosted by Prince Tijani Oniru and some other persons. The palace officials were on routine inspection to supervise the work being done by an Inventory and Enumeration group. “In the ensuing heated argument, it was alleged that Prince Tijani Oniru slapped the leader of the palace officials, who was also alleged to have retaliated. Fortunately, the police quickly intervened to prevent further escalation. “The Oniru of Iruland, Oba Abdul Wasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, has been formally notified of this incident, and he has immediately ordered an investigation into both the incident and the conduct of the palace officials. His Majesty has repeatedly stated that he would not tolerate or condone any act of violence, lawlessness and recourse to self-help. “In addition, he sees no reason or excuse for violence in Iru Land. Consequently, Kabiyesi has directed the Palace Administrator to immediately suspend the official involved in the incident pending full investigation.” The statement added the oba awaits the outcome of investigation by the office of the Area J Police Commander, and DPO of Maroko Police Station. The children of the late Oniru are insisting on maintaining control of some of the properties worth billions of naira, but the new monarch, through his lawyer, Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN), has asked all banks housing funds belonging to the royal family to immediately freeze all accounts.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .