Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith at the Red Table Talk Jada Pinkett Smith has confirmed that she had a relationship with R&B singer August Alsina while she and her husband Will Smith were going through a “difficult time”. Alsina had claimed in an interview with radio host Angela Yee that he had been romantically involved with the actress, also adding that her husband, Smith had given them his blessing. On Friday’s episode of her Facebook Watch show Red Table Talk, Jada Smith sat with Will Smith to discuss the romance claims made by Alsina. The couple said they have purposely not said anything in the media.
“We were purposely never saying anything. We specifically never said anything. Coming to the table, we just felt like it got to the point where you gotta say something.” Pinkett Smith added, “It’s a situation that I consider private. This is a very personal journey that became very public.” Jada said that she started a friendship with Alsina four and a half years ago and they became “really, really good friends”. She added that the friendship started with Alsina needing some help, “me wanting to help his health, his mental state.” “The outpouring for him from our family was initially about his health,” she said. “We found all those different resources to help pull him through” Jada revealed that she and Smith were going through a “very difficult time” then. “I was done with you,” Smith said. Jada Smith clarified that they actually “broke up.” To which Smith added that they decided that they were going to separate for “a period of time”. “And then what did you do, Jada?” he asked. “From there as time went on I got into a different kind of entanglement with August. One thing I want to clean up… about you giving ‘permission’ which is… the only person that can give permission in that circumstance is myself,” she said. “But what August was probably trying to communicate because I could see how he could see it as permission because we were separated amicably, and I think he wanted to make it clear he’s not a homewrecker because he’s not.” When Will asked Jada to clarify what she meant by “entanglement”, Jada responded, “It was a relationship, absolutely.” Jada continued, “I was in a lot of pain, and I was very broken. In the process of that relationship I definitely realized that you can’t find happiness outside yourself.” Jada said she didn’t view her relationship with Alsina “as a transgression at all.” The actress said she had learned so much about herself through “that journey”: “Through that particular journey, I learned so much about myself and was able to really confront a lot of emotional immaturity, emotional insecurity and I was really able to do some really deep healing,” Jada said. “And as I came through and started to realize certain things about you and I, he decided to break all communication with me which was totally understandable. And I let that be and hadn’t talked to him since so it is a little weird that all this stuff is coming out now since this was several [years ago].” Jada has been married to Will since 1997, they are parents to Jaden and Willow.