• Absence of judge stalls Ize-Iyamu’s case, court adjourns to July 7
• PDP hopeful of Obaseki’s future as its standard bearer The All Progressives Congress (APC’s) Caretaker and Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee yesterday named Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje head of its National Campaign Council for the Edo State governorship election. A statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, disclosed that Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma is Deputy Chairman, while Abbas Braimoh is Secretary of the 49-member council. This followed approval for the constitution of a National Campaign Council for the September 19, 2020 governorship poll by the National Chairman of the Caretaker and Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni. The campaign council will be inaugurated on Monday, July 6, 2020 at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja.  Other members of the council are, Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, governors Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe), Yahaya Bello (Kogi), Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) and former national chairmen of APC, John Odigie-Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole. It also has Aliyu Wamakko, Godswill Akpabio, Orji Uzor Kalu, Rochas Okorocha, Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, Pius Odubu, Degi Eremiemyo Biobaraku, Professor Oserheimen A. Osunbor and Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan, among others as members. In a related development, the absence of the trial judge, Umar Garba yesterday stalled prosecution of APC gubernatorial candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu and four others over alleged N700m fraud preferred against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Consequently, the case was adjourned to July 7, 2020, as Ize-Iyamu was absent in court, while his counsel, Peter Uwadiae was present. Counsel to the third defendant, Pascal Ugbome, told journalists in Benin City that parties in the suit chose the date. The EFCC in the suit marked FHC/BE21C/2016 had explained that Ize-Iyamu and four others allegedly received N700m for the 2015 general elections, contrary to provisions of the EFCC Act and the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act. Other defendants in the suit are a former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Lucky Imasuen, Efe Erimuoghae Anthony and two others. Meanwhile, Edo chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed hope over the future of the party with Governor Godwin Obaseki as its candidate for the governorship election. In a statement issued by its state Publicity Secretary, Chris Osa Nehikhare, the party expressed appreciation to its leadership at the state and national levels, as well as the governorship aspirants for the civilised way its primary election was conducted. Nehikhare congratulated Governor Obaseki for his emergence the party’s candidate and as a vital part and leader of the party, noting, “As we reset Edo State, we will reset the way we look, feel and think. And we need to reset the way we behave.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .