Tamar Braxton | Getty Images According to several reports, Grammy-nominated songstress Tamar Braxton was rushed to a Los Angeles hospital on Thursday night after possibly overdosing and attempting suicide. Police responded to a distress call of a possible overdose and suicide attempt at a residence in a downtown Los Angeles high-rise. It is gathered that officers found the 43-year-old singer unconscious and unresponsive at the Ritz Carlton Residences in the 900 block of Olympic Boulevard. A spokesperson for the Los Angeles Police Department said she was rushed to California Hospital Medical Center and was listed in stable condition. It is alleged that Braxton overdosed on pills and alcohol and it is believed it was a suicide attempt. The celebrity gossip site, TMZ reported that her boyfriend David Adefeso, who was staying with her at the hotel, told police that she had been upset earlier Thursday and had threatened suicide. Authorities say the “Braxton Family Values” star did not leave a note. Tamar Braxton | Urban islandz However, Braxton said ‘the only way out is death’ in a message to her family hours before her ‘suicide attempt.’ The singer also described herself as a ‘slave’ in a tweet which was never published to Twitter. The message – obtained by The Blast – reads: “I am a slave. I do not own my life. My stories. My pictures. My thoughts or beliefs. I’ve asked my massa to free me. I’m threatened and punished for it. “The only way I see out is death. I will choose that before I continue to [live] like this. please help me.” At some point on Thursday, the star also changed her Twitter name to ‘Tamar “Slave” Braxton’. Tamar Braxton is an alum of the ABC reality competition show “Dancing With the Stars.” In November 2015, Braxton announced that she was dropping out of that season’s “Dancing With the Stars” competition because she had been diagnosed with blood clots in both of her lungs. Braxton and her boyfriend typically release an episode of their YouTube show “Coupled & Quarantined” on Thursdays, but it was postponed without explanation Thursday. Tamar is the youngest in a family of singers and she shot to fame when her family’s show, starring music legend Toni Braxton, began airing on WeTV in 2011. She earned a name for herself with hit records including “Love and War” and receiving several Grammy nominations, with the latest being for her song “If I Don’t Have You” in 2016. She won the 2019 edition of “Celebrity Big Brother.”