Professionals in the construction sector said the adoption of Building Information of Modeling  (BIM) would ensure competitive advantage and cost-effective building construction in the country.
 
BIM is one of the most visible aspects of a deep and fundamental change that is rapidly transforming the global construction industry. It is the platform that brings about the collaboration between project stakeholders and improvement of project outcomes.
 
The growing worldwide adoption and implementation of BIM for its powerful data-based modelling, visualization, analysis and simulation capabilities represent a paradigm shift to an integrated digital information infrastructure that will ultimately revolutionize almost all aspects of the construction industry.  According to them, BIM represents a new paradigm within Architects, Engineers and Contractors (AEC), and one that encourages integration of the roles of all stakeholders on a project.
 
They stressed that the system helps AEC visualize what is to be built in a simulated environment to identify any potential design, construction, or operational issues.
 
Immediate past President, Nigerian Institution of Structural Engineers, Eddy Atumonyogo said BIM is a building management system, which can facilitate early delivery of projects in terms of preventing the redesign that goes on and on when a building project has commenced.
 
The consulting engineer said through BIM, most of the redesigned works are done during the procurement stage because all the designers work concurrently.
 
For instance, he said, whatever the architect is doing, the structural and the electrical engineers can see, so that if the electrical engineer wants some dots, he can place it in the architect’s drawing and the structural engineer will see it so that the steel will not clash where the dots were.  He further argued that its adoption would not automatically translate directly to cost savings because site workers can still waste ordered materials, while some can still get damaged in transit.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .