• Management insists Ngige, others approved training, office rehabilitation 
• NECA denies board wrote petition 
The board of the Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), may raise an investigative panel on the accusations levelled against some suspended management members of the Fund. At the entrance of the Fund yesterday (Monday) morning, there were about five lorry loads of Department of State Security (DSS) personnel strategically stationed obviously to keep the peace. The Chairman, Austin Enajemo-Isire, who said the board would conduct the meeting via virtual platform, explained that the panel will offer the officers the opportunity to clear themselves of the allegations levelled against them.
In the meantime, the management insists it got all mandatory approvals for the execution of training for its staff and rehabilitation of its state offices. Also, the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association (NECA), has denied insinuations that the board wrote a petition against the NSITF management team on financial impropriety, which was allegedly presented to President Muhammadu Buhari. The NECA Director-General, Timothy Olawale, said: “NECA is not against the Minister as head of the supervising Ministry taking whatever actions he deemed right in his capacity, but takes exception to misrepresentation and misleading information to the public. In the interest of the public, it would be interesting to divulge the identities of the board members behind the said petition. Some stakeholders may be fooled by misinformation and misrepresentations, but NECA refuses to fall for such illegality, as we owe contributors to the Fund, who are employers of labour represented by us and the citizenry the duty of due diligence and forthrightness.” The suspended management of the Fund also denied the allegation of contract splitting made by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .