Kanye West Speaks Against Harriet Tubman In Presidential Campaign Kanye West announced he was running for president earlier this month but not everyone is convinced he is serious. However, he has started his presidential campaign and in a lengthy speech to an audience in North Charleston, South Carolina, on Sunday, the rapper spoke about topics such as abortion, religion, and international trade. Wearing a protective vest and with “2020” shaved into his head, the entertainer appeared on a live-stream of the event. Several hundred people gathered in a venue, where gospel music played before West’s appearance. In his first event since declaring himself a presidential candidate, he ranted against historical figure Harriet Tubman on Sunday, saying the Underground Railroad conductor “never actually freed the slaves, she just had them work for other white people,” comments that drew shouts of opposition from some in the crowd. Tubman is one of the most respected figures of 19th century America. An African American who escaped slavery, she helped enslaved Black men and women travel north to freedom and fought for the Union during the Civil War. She later became a supporter of women’s suffrage. The rapper speaking on abortion said that while he believes it should be legal, financial incentives to help struggling mothers could be a way to discourage the practice. He mentioned how he almost aborted North and how he was also almost aborted by his father: There would have been no Kanye West, because my dad was too busy. I almost killed my daughter, even if my wife were to divorce me after this speech, she brought North into the world, even when I didn’t want to. Speaking without a microphone, West became tearful at one point while talking about his mother, who died following plastic surgery complications in 2007. West, 43, had been a keen supporter of President Donald Trump but he announced his own candidacy for the top job on 4 July, with billionaire Elon Musk among his early supporters. He missed the deadline to qualify for the ballot in many states and nobody is sure whether he can get enough signatures to qualify in others. He qualified last week to appear on the Oklahoma ballot but he needs 10,000 signatures by noon on Monday to appear in South Carolina.