Orange (www.Orange.com), a major telecoms provider in Africa and the Middle East, and NSIA (www.GroupeNSIA.com), a leader of bancassurance, are pleased to announce the launch of Orange Bank Africa in Abidjan and Côte d’Ivoire. Orange Bank Africa, headed by Jean-Louis Menann-Kouamé, will offer clients a range of simple savings and credit services available at all times via mobile phone.  Orange Bank Africa will address the needs of a large part of the population, often excluded from the world of conventional banking, allowing them to borrow and save small amounts that are nonetheless essential for their everyday lives. When it launches, Orange Bank Africa via its Orange Money service will offer a range of savings and micro credit services allowing customers to borrow as little as 5,000 CFA francs instantly using their mobile phone.  Orange’s mobile financial services strategy in Africa aims to offer solutions accessible to the broadest population regardless of their income or where they live. Orange Bank Africa intends to become a leader in ensuring financial inclusion in West Africa.  Orange Chairman and CEO, Stéphane Richard, explains, “New technology is needed to strengthen financial inclusion and support economic development, as proven by mobile money over the past few years. Banking is a new area of business for Orange in Africa. It falls squarely in line with our strategy as a multi-service operator and our desire to drive the digital transformation forward in Africa. Based on our association with NSIA, also a leader on the market in Africa, we provide easy access to bank services for as many people as possible, with simple and essential services that benefit all our clients.”  Jean Kacou Diagou, CEO of NSIA, adds: “I am very pleased that the partnership between Orange and NSIA has resulted in the creation of Orange Bank Africa. For the past 25 years, NSIA Group has been developing bank and insurance solutions to address the needs of African people and make them available to as many people as possible. We know that electronic banking is vital for the financial inclusion of our customers. We are proud to have combined our expertise and human capital with that of Orange to create the fully digital Orange Bank Africa.”  Orange Bank Africa will expand into Senegal, Mali and Burkina Faso.  Having played an essential part in financial transactions for several years now, Orange Money and digital services became even more important and more rapidly adopted by users during the health crisis. With this in mind, Orange believes that mobile banking has an important role to play in Africa. It is the very essence of Orange's purpose of providing everyone with the keys to a responsible digital world.  For more information on Orange Bank Africa in Côte d’ivoire: https://orangebank.ci Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Orange. Press Contacts:
Orange Middle East & Africa:
Khadija Komara
Email: khadija.komara@orange.com
Phone: +33 6 76 45 96 18 Orange Group:
Tom Wright
Email: tom.wright@orange.com
Phone: +33 6 78 91 35 11 NSIA:
Marie-Thérèse Boua N’Guessan
HR and Group Communication Director
Phone: (+225) 20 31 98 25 About Orange:
Orange (www.Orange.com) is one of the world’s leading telecommunications operators with sales of 42 billion euros in 2019 and 145,000 employees worldwide at 31 March 2020, including 85,000 employees in France. The Group has a total customer base of 253 million customers worldwide at 31 March 2020, including 208 million mobile customers and 21 million fixed broadband customers. The Group is present in 26 countries. Orange is also a leading provider of global IT and telecommunication services to multinational companies, under the brand Orange Business Services. In December 2019, the Group presented its new “Engage 2025” strategic plan, which, guided by social and environmental accountability, aims to reinvent its operator model. While accelerating in growth areas and placing data and AI at the heart of its innovation model, the Group will be an attractive and responsible employer, adapted to emerging professions.  Orange is listed on Euronext Paris (symbol ORA) and on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol ORAN). To find out more (online and via your mobile device), go to: www.Orange.com, www.Orange-Business.com or to follow us on Twitter: @orangegrouppr.  Orange and any other Orange product or service names included in this material are trademarks of Orange or Orange Brand Services Limited. About NSIA:
NSIA Group (www.GroupeNSIA.com) is a group providing financial services that cover banking and insurance products and services. NSIA Group is made up of three banks, three bank branches, 21 insurance companies, a management and intermediation companies, a UCITS manager, a property company, a reinsurance broker, and a foundation. It has nearly 3,000 employees. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .