LAGOS State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, said his administration would continue to support private organisations. Speaking at the commissioning of the first indigenous face masks manufacturing firm, O-Care Medical Face Masks Factory, in Lagos, Sanwo-Olu said: “This is a strategic production and we as a state government, will be supporting it. It is a confirmation of what we stand for to create a favourable atmosphere for business to do well.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who gave a goodwill message virtually, commended Managing Director of Transerve Disc Technologies, Mr. Cyprian Orakpo, for rising and taking up the challenge to solve the problem of shortage of medical devices occasioned by the outbreak of COVID-19. MEANWHILE, the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Lagos State Chapter, has urged Lagos State government to give assistance to its members in terms of grants and one-digit interest loan to prevent private education sector in the state from collapse. The association said that the urgent attention was needed considering the hardship that private school owners and their numerous members staff are experiencing, most especially, on salaries, loan repayment, taxes and levies without any corresponding income currently, coupled with getting necessary items in place as a way of coping with COVID-19 challenges both for prevention and to aid online lessons. It said that free online lessons were introduced to assist students in Senior Secondary Schools where over 1,500 are still benefiting from the programme on NAPPS Online Telegram. Lagos State Chairman of NAPPS and Proprietor of HOMAT Group of Schools, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, Mr. Olawale Amusa, who stated this at a press conference on his stewardship for six months in office, acknowledged the efforts of all the stakeholders for their endurance during the lockdown. He encouraged all members of the association to put in their best to ensure that all necessary equipment and facilities as recommended by the supervising authorities are fully put in place for reopening of the schools. The Lagos State NAPPS chairman, while giving account of his stewardship, said that the association enhanced the quality of education of its members by organising various seminars and workshops for school owners and teachers so that total quality services can be provided in our schools. “We have recorded notable achievements in the course of implementing our cardinal programme (VIEW-ME) agenda as promised during the electioneering period. And this shall form the fulcrum upon which future success will be built. Venturing into diversified sources of income, NAPPS TV was inaugurated where school programmes are aired on LTV every Friday. The business committee of the association embarked on production/supply of various items like banners, hand-washing station machines, diaries, calendar, sanitisers, among others, to create other sources of income and reduce unnecessary financial burdens on members,” he said. He, however, encouraged members of the body to be calm and play the game by its rules, stressing the need for all members to obey and observe all the requirements precedent to reopening of the schools as prescribed by all relevant authorities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .