Yenagoa is bubbling. Golfers from all over Nigeria are getting set to storm the Bayelsa State capital to celebrate the first year of the most modern golf club in the old Eastern region. And the hosts say they are ready for the gig. Yesterday, the leadership of the iconic Henry Seriake Dickson (HSD) Golf and Country Club located in the New Yenagoa City disclosed their plans to celebrate the club’s first year, which incidentally coincides with the one-year anniversary of Governor Douye Diri’s administration. Captain of the Club, Mr. Oyintonefie Ritchie Etonye, said everything have been put in place for the HSD Golf Tournament, which was inaugurated in February 2020 by the immediate past Bayelsa State Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson. Etonye said a meeting of the club’s executives would soon be convened to discuss the modalities for hosting the maiden anniversary. He added that he would meet with the Chairman, Board of Trustees of the Bayelsa State Golf Club, King Alfred Diete-Spiff, as well as other notable patrons of the club, to get their nod and support for the forthcoming events. Etonye also revealed that the club’s managers would meet with Governor Diri to seek his approval for the early composition of an organising committee, which would then outline the plans for the event. Etonye said they decided to plan ahead for the event because 2020 has been a particularly challenging year, especially given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on sports. “For a young golf club like ours, we are particularly challenged by the COVID 19 pandemic. We are doing all we can to keep the golf club alive. Our members have been very supportive, especially in ensuring that their dues are paid as and when due, even in this very difficult COVID-19 era. “We are also not relenting in our membership drive. Understandably, due to COVID-19, there is a lull in our activities, but we are determined to keep pushing and following through with our plans to develop the club. That’s why we have already started early by putting machinery in place to mark our one year anniversary in a post-COVID-19 season.” Etonye, a permanent Secretary in the Bayelsa State Government, who was unanimously elected Captain of the Golf Club, has demonstrated remarkable leadership in keeping the course alive since its inauguration. But he says the success of the golf course was the result of a team effort, adding, “If anything, the real credit must be given to Governor Douye Diri for ensuring that the golf course remains active and functional.” Located in a prime part of the New Yenagoa City, the golf course has the potential of attracting tourists to the state, as it boasts some of the finest appurtenances available in standard golf clubs as seen in other parts of the world. The Bayelsa Golf Course has its irrigation system fully computerised with 22 kilometres of drainage pipe and 17 kilometres of wiring between the sprinklers, among other components. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .