• Turning waste to wealth
Business Overview
With increased urbanisation and industrialisation, and the recent substitution of organic/or synthetic materials, waste management has become an enigma, causing nightmares to states and local governments in Nigeria. For instance, in the Lagos metropolis, the waste generated daily is estimated to be 1,500 tonnes. Fortunately, some vital wastes like plastic containers, polythene bags, aluminium and iron scraps that can be easily recycled to produce valuable raw materials for our industries constitute major proportion of the urban wastes in the country. It is in the light of this that waste plastic recycling project becomes an invaluable project. Waste conversion such as this is like making something valuable out of nothing. The project has a unique advantage of low-cost raw materials. The likely products that can be produced from this project include shopping bags, containers for hair and body creams, pomades, chemical, pharmaceutical, beverages, and all forms of liquid (Water, Petrol, etc). All these can be produced in various sizes and shapes matching a customer’s unique designs and specifications. The mould can also be a general-purpose or a customised one. Market Prospects
There is a wide unsaturated market for plastic derivatives and the demand grows tremendously by the day.
Estimated Start-Up Cost: N16.0 million – N19.5 million
Potential Profit: N17,475,250.00 or more
Typical Fees/ Prices: N200,000.00 per tonne
Advertising Options: Handbills distribution, one-on-one sales/marketing, sales representatives.
Qualifications: Experience in plastic recycling operations, marketing and selling skills.
Facilities/Equipment Needed: To start a profitable plastic recycling plant, you need some top-notch pieces of equipment, imported or fabricated in Nigeria. They include: breakers, plastic shredders, granulators, separators, a pre-washing system, a rising system and dryers. Staff Required: CEO/Operation Manager, Operation Officer 1, Marketer/Driver 1. This profile, or any similar one, can be developed into a bankable proposal for any interested investor. For further clarification, contact our offices.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .