A Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Olusegun Agbalajobi, has warned that the second term of Governor Kayode Fayemi might be a disastrous outing unless the governor hits the ground running. Agbalajobi said that the governor’s two years in office had been nothing but much talk with little or nothing concrete to show, saying, “if he continues at this pace, his second term may become one of the biggest disasters that have befallen Ekiti State since its creation.” In a statement yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, Agbalajobi said that Governor Fayemi had made a disappointing showing within the two years in the saddle in contrast with the performance of his predecessors. The former governorship aspirant, who alleged that Fayemi had pulled the gear of progress of the state to reverse mode, said his frequent absence from the state had further compounded the issue as it adversely impacted on the governance and development in Ekiti State. Agbalajobi also alleged that there was lack of governance in the state, adding that the Fayemi-led government had no prospect to impact positively on the people in terms of good governance and that Ekiti would have witnessed meaningful socio-economic development and growth if Fayemi had concentrated his nerves towards bringing new lease of life to the masses rather than scheming to destroy his benefactors. Reacting, the Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Public Communication, Mr. Segun Dipe, said the criticism was in bad faith and intended to distract the governor from performing his laudable programmes. Dipe said the criticism showed the sheer desperation of Agbalajobi to pull down the Fayemi-led administration at all costs, adding that no amount of blackmail will distract Governor Fayemi from effecting socio-economic development in the state. “I don’t blame Agbalajobi for not seeing the good work Governor Fayemi is busy doing because he is an outsider and he had lost touch with what’s happening in the state. “How could a normal being label Fayemi’s government a failure when the health sector has been reinvigorated, education taking its pride of place, infrastructure and basic amenities taking good shape and the economy improving ?” he retorted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .