Chairman, Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Committee on Works and Transport, Mr. David Lawrence, has urged contractors handling road projects in the state to double up and justify level of work at each project site with the volume money they have so far received from the government. Lawrence, who is the member representing Eket State Constituency, emphasised that the intention of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration as captured in his completion agenda was to ensure that all projects awarded by his government are justifiably completed. The committee chairman gave the charge yesterday in Uyo, the state capital when he led members of the committee for an on-the-spot assessment inspection to ascertain work pace at various project sites in the state. Managing Director of AMITEC Construction, Aiman Saimua, who spoke while briefing the committee on work done on Atan Offot Road, said the project was at 70 per cent completion stage, saying that what is left for the project to be completed is stone base and asphalt laying. “Currently, the project is at 70 per cent completion stage. We have equally carried out earthworks of 2.1mtr deep from top surface. Hopefully, if we are mobilised back to site, this project will be completed within the next three months from now,” Aiman assured. He, however, attributed the delay to the outbreak of COVID-19, which he admitted, had negatively affected supposed work progress. The committee members, who expressed dissatisfaction over the slow pace of work done on 19.5-kilometre Anua-Mbak Ishiet Road, which was awarded to Verini construction firm five years ago, warned that the House of Assembly would not entertain project abandonment by contractors. “This project is one of the earliest road projects that was awarded by the governor. This committee is not satisfied with the pace of work so far done; we will carry out investigation to determine actual amount released for this project and appropriate action will be taken,” Lawrence stated. The engineer, Alfred Alfred, in his explanation, told the lawmakers that a total of 15 kilometres, including earthworks out of 19.3 km, had been done. He also said that the company’s inability to have a proper right of way had caused the company to act slow than expected.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .