 FC Bulmaro’s technical crew getting set for the 2020/21 season.  Dibiasi, who said his Nationwide League outfit would be ready when the 2020/2021 season begins in September, also commended the NFF for its efforts to ensure that football returned in the country. Speaking after a technical support meeting with stakeholders of the young elite club at the weekend, Dibiasi said the ‘no promotion, no relegation’ decision was the best way to go in the prevailing circumstance. “It offers a good ground for visionary clubs to explore avenues of doing things that will be of immense value to all stakeholders. We think it is the best way to breathe better. “For us in the Natiionwide League, and as a young club, it will give us the chance to actualize our primary objective of exposing our players to competitive football starting from the bottom. “If you have been following the club’s progress, you will know where our future is.  We are ready to keep creating opportunities that will add value to the society and make the world better. We are always prepared because it is the reason we are here and nothing more,” Dibiasi said. Also speaking on the club’s readiness for the upcoming season, FC Bulmaro’s Spokesperson, Ms. Ekamen Wushishi, said the club’s participation in youth competitions in Barcelona, Spain, has prepared them for the challenges ahead. “We missed this year’s tournament due to the global health pandemic. We are ever ready. Our players are young, full of energy and strength and very focused and enthusiastic. It is always the joy of our stakeholders to see them do exploits. It is the only club from this part of the world that always participate in the championship, Wushishi said. She revealed that FC Bulmaro is open to partnerships that would be of immense value to the youths, adding that the club is currently meeting with promoters of the team for a partnership that would develop and empower young football talents in the country from the grassroots. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .