 Akeredolu  Ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) July 20, 2020 primaries in Ondo State, the party delegates have declared war on 11 governorship aspirants for calling them, rogues and untrustworthy party people. In a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday by leaders of the delegates, Yemi Akinwande (Central), Muyiwa Olakunle (North) and James Ayenuro (South), the party delegates threatened to deal with the aspirants. They noted that, despite the fact that the majority of them were for continuity, there are some of them that could still be swayed if not for the unguarded statements from the aspirants. The APC delegates lamented: “Their statement on us really show the kind of leaders these aspirants will be if they are finally elected as the candidate of our great party. “We take exception to their name-calling habit just as we are battle ready to show them that we are not rogues. Many of them were not in the party when we emerged as delegates. “We will not allow them to rubbish our integrity. “We are not bothered with the name-calling. Whether they trust us or not is their own headache. We will continue to pursue what is best for our party. “They did not just call us names, they have already made efforts to make sure we are illegally removed. But God is not man. They have been disappointed.” IN another development, scores of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains and members, yesterday, protested against alleged manipulation of the party’s delegates’ list ahead of the July 22, 2020 governorship primary election. The protesters, armed with placards at the party’s secretariat in Akure, accused the Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi and some party chieftains of manipulating the list. The aggrieved PDP chieftains and members of the party alleged that over 101 fake names were illegally included in the ad-hoc delegates’ list. However, the Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr. Babatope Okeowo, dispelled the allegations and urged the party members to “count Agboola Ajayi out of ‘doctored’ list.” He said: “The truth of the matter is that Agboola Ajayi is not a member of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP and could not have influenced the ‘doctored’  list if it exists at all.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .