Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, has vowed not to plant a surrogate as successor in 2023, but will only support a candidate who has the genuine interest and development of the state at heart. He also said the state had recorded four additional COVID-19 deaths, adding that two Akwa Ibom persons that tested positive for the pandemic brought certificate for treatment from outside the state. Udom stated this in a Facebook media chat saying, “I am not the kind of governor that will seek a third term through a surrogate or who wants to rule for 24 years. I can only support someone who genuinely has the development and interest of the state at heart.” On COVID-19, Udom said the four cases were brought in when their conditions were already very bad and urged citizens to go for test to ascertain their health status. “From the last time on this programme, we have had additional four deaths in the state. It is not as if they all died in one day, but it is just because that is the time the NCDC decided to update their records. “We recently took delivery of three more containers of medical equipment. We can open them and show those who are in doubt. I promised that we will ensure that the 10 federal constituencies have well equipped hospitals. “So far, all the federal constituencies have well equipped modern hospitals except Ikot Abasi and Ikot Ekpene constituencies. Work has gone far at the Ikot Ekpene General Hospital and we have awarded contract for Ikot Abasi General Hospital,” he stated. He noted that whether there was COVID-19 or not, people who have high sugar content in their blood were in danger, saying, “We as a people consume high carbohydrates and this could lead to high sugar level, but we should try and go for test to be sure of our health conditions.” Governor Udom lamented that despite the fact that the state was an oil producing state, there was no meaningful contribution from the oil companies operating in Akwa Ibom. “Our state produces the oil and contributes significantly to the country’s economy. But I am yet to see any meaningful development in the state. I have not seen any significant presence of those who explore our oil. “Even ExxonMobil feels reluctant to pay tax. So, we will help ourselves by encouraging those who are willing to partner with us to develop our state instead of deriding them,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .