•‘International flights will boost confidence, local market recovery’  
At least three in every 10 air travellers have vowed not to fly anytime soon over possible coronavirus infection during travel.
 
The finding, courtesy of a global survey conducted by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), showed that a lot of the travelling public were still wary, demanding that both operators and governments should do more to restore confidence.
 
Meanwhile, stakeholders have urged the Federal Government to consider reopening the international airspace soon, to further drive confidence among air travellers and aid recovery of the local market.
 
The 11-country survey, which was conducted during the first week of June 2020, assessed travellers’ concerns during the pandemic and the potential timelines for their return to travel. This is the third wave of the survey, with previous waves conducted at the end of February and the beginning of April. All those surveyed had taken at least one flight since July 2019.  The survey also pointed to some key issues in restoring confidence where the industry will need to communicate the facts more effectively.
 
Travellers have not made up their minds about cabin air quality. While 57 per cent of travellers believed that air quality is dangerous, 55 per cent also responded that they understood that it was as clean as the air in a hospital operating theatre. The quality of air in modern aircraft is, in fact, far better than most other enclosed environments. It is exchanged with fresh air every two-three minutes, whereas the air in most office buildings is exchanged two-three times per hour. Moreover, High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters capture well over 99.999 per cent of germs, including the Coronavirus.
   
There is no requirement for social distancing measures on board the aircraft from highly respected aviation authorities such as the US Federal Aviation Administration, the European Union Aviation Safety Agency or ICAO.
 
“It is no secret that passengers have concerns about the risk of transmission onboard. They should be reassured by the many built-in anti-virus features of the air flow system and forward-facing seating arrangements. 
 
“On top of this, screening before flight and facial coverings are among the extra layers of protection that are being implemented by industry and governments on the advice of ICAO and the World Health Organisation. No environment is risk free, but few environments are as controlled as the aircraft cabin. And we need to make sure that travelers understand that,” de Juniac said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .