 Kelechi Nwakali  While his mates like Samuel Chukwueze and Victor Osimhen, are commanding rave reviews in Europe, Nwakali just gained promotion to the Spanish La Liga from the second division with Huesca. It has not been the type of career many pundits predicted for the lad when he became the best U-17 player in the world in 2015. But now that his career seems to be stepping up, he does not want to let go.Nwakali wants to return to the international scene with the Super Eagles, while working hard to attract the attention of his dream club, FC Barcelona. Speaking at the weekend, Nwakali said he is now ready for the Super Eagles, adding that Huesca’s promotion has now given him the opportunity to play against the big boys once again. He noted that playing football in the top league has been his career aspiration as a young footballer, saying, “I am delighted that my club has gained promotion to the Spanish La Liga. It was not easy for my team at the second division because of the quality of teams at that level. “I was only able to play in five games because I had Spanish visa issues. My focus now is to work hard to play regularly when the league resumes.” Nwakali, who has watched over the years as his mates, Chukwueze and Osimhen have cemented their positions in the Super Eagles team, believes it is only a matter of time before he joins them. “I believe when Coach Gernot Rohr needs me, he will invite me. I speak with him at times and I know my time will soon come. “I am delighted that my team mates, Victor Osimhen and Samuel Chukwueze are doing well in Super Eagles. My aspiration is to join them in the team. They understand my kind of play and we connect very well on the pitch,” he said. Nwakali also revealed that his childhood desire is to play for Barcelona FC some day. “I have always hoped to play for Barcelona FC some day as a young footballer. But in life, you must start somewhere to achieve your dream. I am delighted that I am now a player in the Spanish top league. “Giving my best to my club remains the priority now. As a young footballer, I aspire to play like Kanu Nwankwo and Yaya Toure because I fancy their style of play.” In the current Super Eagles team, Nwakali picks Oghenekaro Etebo as his ideal player, saying, “His dedication and commitment to national team duties delights me. My stay under Coach Emmanuel Amuneke in the Golden Eaglets team has prepared me for everything I am facing now in my career.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .