Johnny Depp and Amber Heard | Image: Leportale It’s day nine of the court drama between Hollywood superstar Johnny Depp, Amber Heard and Britain’s The Sun newspaper and it keeps getting messier. An artist, Isaac Baruch, who was a live-in friend to Depp took the stand on Friday and told the UK high court that Amber Heard had faked her injuries in order to blackmail Depp. Baruch, who has known Depp for nearly 40 years and stayed as his guest in the same Los Angeles penthouse complex said pictures of Heard’s injuries leaked to the media were “phoney baloney”. Baruch was questioned about the aftermath of an incident on 21 May 2016, in which Depp is alleged by Heard to have struck her. In his statement, Baruch said that he met Heard the day after the alleged incident and she told him that Depp had hit her in the face and threw a phone at her. “I then asked her where he had hit her and she stretched her neck and pushed out the right side of her head for me to look at her right eye,” Baruch said. “I literally was around 12 inches from her, inspecting her face, and I did not see a single mark or evidence of any marks, bruising, or swelling of any kind anywhere on her face. She also definitely didn’t seem to be wearing any makeup at this time of day that could cover any marks or swelling.” Baruch said he saw Heard again on four other occasions after that. “Again, I saw no marks of any kind on either side of her face. There were no bruises, scratches, redness, dark spots, or swelling of any kind.” Johnny Depp is suing the publisher and executive editor of The Sun newspaper in London’s High Court over a 2018 story branding him a “wife beater”. The Sun says it can prove the 57-year-old abused the 34-year-old model and actress on 14 occasions before their two-year marriage fell apart in 2017. Lawyer Sasha Wass, representing The Sun’s publishers News Group Newspapers (NGN), tried to cast Baruch as an unreliable witness who depended on Depp for his livelihood. She noted that Depp gave Baruch free accommodation and tens of thousands of dollars a year in living expenses. She also asked how Baruch could be sure Heard was not covering up her bruises with makeup. Baruch said he was “100 per cent sure” because he saw Heard four more times over the next three days. “I saw no marks of any kind on either side of the face,” he said. Heard has been attending the hearings daily but will only enter the witness box for the first time Monday. She can expect to be grilled by Depp’s lawyer about whether she had staged or otherwise misrepresented any of the photos of her face submitted to the court. The Sun’s lawyers said they received a notice from Depp’s team Friday claiming that around 20 of the images had been “adapted or manipulated”. Depp’s lawyers said the picture Baruch was being asked about had been “photoshopped”. The Guardian UK reports that images taken on that day, the court was later told, are to be subject to metadata analysis to establish whether or not they were not digitally altered. The case was adjourned until Monday.