Demi Lovato and Max Ehrich She said YES! What better way to be cool for the summer than to be engaged? “Cool For The Summer” crooner Demi Lovato said yes to her boyfriend Max Ehrich after he popped the question on Wednesday night. Taking to Instagram to announce her engagement that took place during a stunning beachside proposal, she shared a series of photos. The images show Lovato and Ehrich embracing on a beach. She is wearing a large engagement ring on her finger. She captioned: “When I was a little girl, my birth dad always called me his ‘little partner’ – something that might’ve sounded strange without his southern cowboy like accent. To me it made perfect sense. And today that word makes perfect sense again but today I’m officially going to be someone else’s partner,” Demi captioned her Instagram announcement. The bride-to-be continued, “@maxehrich – I knew I loved you the moment I met you. It was something I can’t describe to anyone who hasn’t experienced it firsthand but luckily you did too.. I’ve never felt so unconditionally loved by someone in my life (other than my parents) flaws and all. You never pressure me to be anything other than myself. And you make me want to be the best version of myself.” “I’m honored to accept your hand in marriage. I love you more than a caption could express but I’m ecstatic to start a family and life with you. I love you forever my baby. My partner. Here’s to our future!!!!” Demi gushed. 29-year-old Ehich also confirmed the engagement with his own Instagram announcement. He shared: “Ahhhh You are every love song, every film, every lyric, every poem, everything I could ever dream of and then some in a partner in life. Words cannot express how infinitely in love with you I am forever and always and then some. I cannot spend another second of my time here on Earth without the miracle of having you as my wife. here’s to forever baby.” He continued, “I’m so excited. You are the most beautiful inside and out in the entire world & I couldn’t be more grateful God brought us together. I LOVE YOU SO MUCH @ddlovato AND WILL FOREVER CHERISH YOUR PURE, BEAUTIFUL, INFINITE SOUL.” Rumours of a romance between the duo started when they exchanged flirty comments on social media back in March It was later gathered the couple were social distancing together and “falling in love.” The engagement comes during a year when Lovato opened up about her conversation with her parents regarding her sexuality and the possibility that she could end up with a woman.