Troops arrest two foreign bandits, stop cattle rustling in Niger
Gunmen have kidnapped more than 30 persons along Mararaba Udege/Loko road in Nasarawa State. The incident reportedly happened on Monday evening. The Osu Ajiri of Udege Chiefdom, Alhaji Halilu Bala-Usman, made this known while briefing Governor Abdullahi Sule on security challenges facing his community at the Government House yesterday. According to the paramount ruler, the unknown armed men, who blocked the Mararaba Udege/Loko highway, stopped motorists and forced passengers to surrender their belongings. He narrated that the abductors came with more than 50 motorcycles and moved over 30 passengers to unknown destination. The operation lasted for more than five hours without interruption by security agents, Bala-Usman added. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), ASP Nansel Ramhan, promised to get back to our reporter after investigating the incident. Meanwhile, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has said that strikes by the air component of Operation Gama Aiki at Kasuwan Ango Community in Mariga Council of Niger State resulted in the disruption of the activities of armed bandits, including two foreigners, operating in the area. The successful air operations were conducted on the night of Sunday, June 28, and early hours of Monday, June 29, sequel to intelligence indicating that some armed bandits in black attire were seen with a large number of rustled cattle in the area. Co-ordinator, Defence Media Operations (DMO), Maj-Gen. John Enenche, disclosed this yesterday in Abuja. His words: “The air component dispatched a helicopter gunship to engage the bandits in multiple waves of attack leading to the neutralisation of some of the bandits, while a few escaped with gunshot wounds. Two of the escaping bandits, who happened to be foreigners, were later apprehended.” Enenche said the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, commended troops of the Operation Gama Aiki for their dedication and professionalism, while thanking Nigerians for their support. The CAS was said to have encouraged the public to continue providing useful information that would facilitate the restoration of peace and security to all parts of the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .