Discharges Aniagwu, 21 others, as SSG awaits COVID-19 test result
CJ tasks new judges on graft abducted NLC boss regains freedom The Delta State Government yesterday reassured parents and guardians that primary and secondary schools that were closed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic would be reopened soon. This followed Federal Government’s commencement of decontamination of schools to contain the spread of COVID-19 in preparation for the resumption of academic activities as from Tuesday, July 14, 2020. Minister of the Environment, Muhammad Mahmood, made Federal Government’s position known in Abuja during the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 daily media briefing. However, Delta State Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education, Patrick Ukah, disclosed in Asaba that the reopening of schools would be for only pupils in primary six, JSS3 and SSS3 students. In a similar vein, the state government disclosed that Commissioner for Information, Charles Aniagwu and 21 others were discharged from isolation centres where they were being treated for the COVID-19. Also, Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Chiedu Ebie, who earlier tested positive for the virus, was awaiting the result of his final test to determine when he would be discharged. A statement issued by Olisa Ifeajika, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, explained that Aniagwu, who tested positive for the virus on June 20 and the 21 others had been discharged from various treatment centres in the state. Ifeajika, who had tested negative for the virus, said, “The discharged persons were isolated after they tested negative for the virus following their isolation and treatment.” Besides, the state Chief Judge (CJ), Marshal Umukoro has charged the three revenue court judges appointed by the Delta State Judicial Service Commission (DSJSC) to eschew corruption and gratification in the discharge of their judicial responsibilities. The new revenue court judges are, Udugbu Robinson Otuniya, Ukuli Boeye Irene and Biwei Ezekiel Simeon. While administering the oath of office on them, Umukoro urged them to live above board in discharging their constitutional duties, stressing that the commission reserved the powers to initiate disciplinary action against any judicial officer who breached the oath of office. Responding, Otuniya pledged that they would discharge their responsibilities to the best of their abilities, saying integrity and justice would be their watchword. Meanwhile, three days after the tension in Asaba over the kidnap of state Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Goodluck Ofobruku, his abductors had released him. The Guardian learnt that Ofobruku regained his freedom after paying an undisclosed amount of money as ransom. State Secretary of the NLC, Comrade Innocent Ofoyade disclosed that the labour leader was driving out of his residence behind the Nigeria Immigration Services (NIS) building along Ibusa Road in Oshimili North Council Area on the Ughelli/Asaba Road when he was abducted. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said the police was still searching the area and that the abductors had not established contact with anyone before Ofobruku was released.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .