The Great Anambra Forum (GAFORUM) has commended the Anambra Elders Advisory Council led by former Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku, over its stance on the rotation of the state’s governorship position in 2021. Leader of the group, Fab Ozigbo, yesterday, said the position of the council, which members comprise prominent indigenes of the state, including Chairman of the South East Traditional Rulers Council, Igwe Alfred Nnaemeka Achebe, reflected its members’ integrity. Ozigbo noted that the position of the Anyaoku-led council in February 2019, when it resolved on power rotation to Anambra South Senatorial District, had been endorsed by Governor Willie Obiano and adopted by the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). He said the council’s position, which was reflected on a working paper, signposted the direction for the political parties willing to participate in the 2021 gubernatorial election. He also commended the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), All Progressives Congress (APC) and Labour Party (LP), among others, for supporting power rotation to Anambra South, urging other parties to join the zone in the interest of equity and justice. Ozigbo urged the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to tread with caution in its current stand over non-implementation of rotational arrangement. He noted the power shift would reduce cost and ensure that the best materials were nominated to contest the election on different political party platforms, adding, “Zoning does not reed mediocrity.” He observed that since 1991 when the state was created, the power shift arrangement has been operational such that Anambra South had governed the state for six and half years, Anambra Central 11 years, while Anambra North was on its second term of eight years. Ozigbo hinted that the group’s commitment towards the maintenance of power rotation was informed by the outcome of its survey, in which about 72 per cent of the respondents favoured power shift in the 2021 poll. “When all zones are allowed to contest the election, the tendency is to overheat the polity and the winner would try to assuage the feelings of his opponents by settling their expenses, which he tries to recoup during his tenure at the detriment of the state,” he stated. He explained that Anambra South, which started the power rotation produced governors Chukwuemeka Ezeife (January 2, 1992, to November 1993); Dr. Chinwoke Mbadinuju (May 29, 1999-May 29, 2003); and Dame Virgy Etiaba (November 2006-February 2007 amounting six and half years. Anambra Central had Dr. Chris Ngige (May 29, 2003, to March 16, 2006), Peter Obi (March 17, 2006, to March 16, 2014) amounting to 10 years and 10 months, while Anambra North has incumbent Governor Obiano, who was on the sixth year of his eight-year tenure. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .