Federal Government through the National Boundary Commission (NBC) has moved to demarcate boundaries connecting Bauchi and Gombe states to stop ownership crisis over crude oil fortune. The acting chairman of the NBC, Mr. Adamu Adaji said that the Federal Government has ordered his team to make physical demarcation of the boundaries of the state to avert the subsequent clashes. He said this when he met with the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed on Tuesday, adding that absence of the physical demarcation has often resulted in conflicting claims on a portion of the boundaries. Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) had in 2019 discovered crude oil in Alkaleri Local Government Area of Bauchi which borders Gombe State. There has been clashes and arguments over the location and ownership of the fortune. Adamu said sometimes, the boundary issue results to threat to peace and security. Adamu said that NBC has been directed to make a quick demarcation of the boundaries. He worried that the recent attacks and counter-attacks of interstate boundaries where incidents capable of causing bad blood among the people occurred. Meanwhile, the Governor in his remarks acknowledged the peaceful coexistence, age-long affinity and border sharing crisis between communities of the two states. He noted that “certainly we had some clashes, particularly in Jurara Abbas and Bawa Zago borders that we share with Yobe and Gombe. Also, in Alkaleri –Ago on Jada axis. This is arising from speculations of some greedy Nigerians who want to take advantage of the oil and gas. Myself and my colleague in Gombe are not going to allow this to happen –where opportunists want to subject our people to clashes.” Mohammed promised to financially support NBC in partnership with his counterpart in Gombe to map out the boundaries to avert the clashes. He added that the “oil that is causing the threats between the two states is an ubiquitous thing. It can move anywhere. Whatever economy that we may be deriving from it can be done anywhere. The Country is driving so much economic benefits from oil and gas that is existing in the Niger Delta. Irrespective of where it is, the NNPC only knows that it exists in Nigeria.” The Governor assured the NBC that the state was calm over the situation and would not allow any form of crisis.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .