The Federal Government has stressed the need for International Oil Companies operating in Niger Delta to have closer interactions with host communities. It also urged them to address issues relating to oil production and economy in the communities. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, gave the advice at a meeting to resolve the shutdown of production at OML 16 in Obosi and Omoku communities in Rivers State. According to Enang, the meeting was also called to assess the implementation of the resolution of the February 27 meeting in Port Harcourt,  which directed the Nigerian Agip Oil Company “ to treat the Obosi community as well as adjoining communities to the facilities, installations, and production from the particular community or cluster and not by proxy” The Presidential aide, however, restated the position of the meeting held in Port Harcourt mandating   NAOC, operator of NNPC/NAOC/OANDO, joint ventures, and other oil companies operating in Niger Delta to review the Memorandum of Understanding they signed with their host communities. “This will reduce the incidence of production shutdown with an attendant negative impact on the Nigeria economy, “ he said. Enang noted that the meeting did not address the traditional institutions in Omoku or Ogba because it was not within its jurisdiction. He said the Federal Government would not allow disruption of the economy of the country through differences between communities and International Oil Companies. Enang advised  Obosi and communities in Omoku, Ogba Kingdom and others against disrupting economic activities in their areas. He said since Nigeria’s production quota was cut by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries the country’s economy had been seriously affected. Enang promised that the Federal Government would ensure that the oil companies and its agencies treat their hosts well. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .