Widow of Emmanuel Olufemi-Peters, Oluchi Ikpeka, has urged the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the state’s Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to fish out the killers of her husband, a former commander of Community Police Sector (CPS) in Lagos. Olufemi-Peters was stabbed to death on June 19 while carrying out the COVID-19 lockdown order in company with some police officers and other paramilitary agents. The security agencies are yet to arrest the assailants who committed the dastardly act. Oluchi, who was devastated while narrating how her husband was murdered, said it looked fishy that it could happen in the presence of policemen that he was assisting in crime-fighting. “Three years ago, my husband was approached by divisional police officers in Agege area to assist in crime-fighting as the crime rate was becoming rampant. We were running home at No. 50, Capitol Road, Agege, for underprivileged children and a school. So, he was popular in the area. “My husband agreed to help the police to sanitise Agege and he formed CPS. He assisted the police and the community in reducing the crime rate for three years. People would call him at night and he would assist, which made him court many enemies from the underworld, and the people loved him. “During the lockdown, there was the restriction of movement. The police needed him to assist on night patrol and they left with two patrol vans and some motorcycles conveying the police and other paramilitary agents. He was on a bike. When they arrived Akerere area of Agege, where hard drugs are sold, some people were seen violating the lockdown order, as they were partying, and the police shot in the air to disperse the party makers. “The party makers ran for cover, but two men approached my husband and said that someone must die and one of them stabbed him in his chest, left side, near the nipple. He used his hand to block the wound and he was rushed to the hospital by the police, but he couldn’t make it as he was confirmed dead by the doctor on duty. “He was immediately buried because his mother is still alive. I want the governor and the Commissioner of Police to wade into the matter to see that my husband’s killers are fished out. I know that someone sent the killers to eliminate him because they knew he was the person who gave the police directions to come to the area that is notorious for crime. “I am also calling on the government to come to the rescue of over 30 underprivileged children that he was taking care of. I am doing my best, but what can a poor widow do? Our home, though not registered, is Reach Touch International, but I am changing the name to Emmanuel Olufemi-Peters Foundation. We also have a school, Vikella Nursery and Primary School. He was a philanthropist that was catering for the children’s school fees and feeding. I am calling on the government to come to the rescue of the innocent kids. “I don’t want him to die in vain. His death will trigger crime again and his enemies will be happy because he was a thorn in the flesh of criminals and evil people in Agege. Let his killers be brought to book so that his spirit will rest in peace,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .