• Senate threatens to shame VIPs beating security checks The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 yesterday attributed the rising COVID-19 deaths in Nigeria to denial and delay in seeking help. Its chairman and Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, acknowledging that testing capacity had to be increased, encouraged Nigerians to know their status. Speaking at the daily briefing of the task force in Abuja, the SGF said sample collection centres had been expanded in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), as all government hospitals in the city are now locations. On the proposed resumption of schools, Mustapha stated: “We recognise that our children are precious, and we would not do anything to compromise their safety.  The PTF has assessed the circumstances, and has put in place necessary guidelines to be followed, while the managers of the sector have the responsibility for drawing up the protocols and determining the dates.” He urged Nigerians to follow closely the critical steps being taken by the Ministry of Education, in conjunction with other stakeholders, preparatory to the exercise. In the interim, President Muhammadu Buhari administration has received $8 million worth of personal protective equipment (PPE) from the German government and the ECOWAS Commission. The SGF said consistent with the role of the Nigerian leader as ECOWAS COVID-19 Champion, the African giant was providing the warehouse and supporting logistics for delivering the materials to other nations in the sub-region. Moreover, the Senate Committee on Primary Healthcare and Communicable Disease have threatened to shame VIPs who refuse to subject themselves to security checks or comply with the COVID-19 safety protocols at the various airports across the country. The chairman, Senator Chukwuka Utazi, who spoke during an inspection tour of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja to ascertain the level of compliance, implored the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the Federal Ministry of Aviation to start early preparation, and avoid panic measures ahead of the resumption of international flights. He decried the non-conforming attitude of the VIPs, pointing out that all passengers, using the gateways irrespective of status, must adhere to rules in this crisis period. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .