Appeal Court strikes out Oshiomhole’s suit
The Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee (CEONCPC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has approved the appointment of former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, and the governor of Niger State, Abubakar Sani Bello to chair the party’s reconciliation committees for Edo and Ondo states. In a statement yesterday, APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, explained that the appointment was in line with the process of true reconciliation among leaders and members of the party at all levels, announced by the National Chairman of the CEONCPC and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni. Other members of the Edo State reconciliation committee include Babatunde Raji Fashola (SAN), Festus Keyamo (SAN), Prof. Tahir Mamman, Mrs. Margaret Okadigbo, Barr. Sanusi Musa and Abdul-Rahman Kawu Sumaila (secretary). The panel for Ondo has Senator Adamu Aliero, Senator Bamidele Opeyemi, Gambon Magaji, Mr. Jasper Azuwatalum, Hajiya Binta Muazu, Iquo Inyang and Shina Pellar  (secretary). Meanwhile, the Court of Appeal, Abuja has dismissed a suit filed by former National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, challenging his suspension from the party. A three-man panel of justices presided over by Uchechukwu Onyemenam unanimously dismissed the appeal at the request of Oshiomhole. Other members of the three-man panel are Justice Mohammed Mustapha and Justice Muazu Lamido. Oshiomhole had sought the intervention of the court against his suspension from the APC by party officials in his ward in Edo State. Justice Danlami Senchi of a High Court of the FCT had given verdict effecting Oshiomhole’s suspension on the ground that the executives of Ward 10 in Etsako West Local Government Area of Edo State acted in line with the constitution of the party. At the resumed hearing of the suit yesterday, the counsel representing Oshiomhole informed the court of his client’s decision to withdraw the suit which originally sought a stay of execution on the judgment of the lower court affirming his suspension. The National Executive Council (NEC) of the party had dissolved the National Working Committee (NWC). Following that, President Muhammadu Buhari appealed to all aggrieved members of the APC to withdraw all pending litigations in the interest of peace. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .