Sirika The Federal Government has cleared another four airports to resume commercial flight operations in line with the COVID-19 safety and security protocols. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, made the disclosure, saying ministerial approvals in and out of the airports would no longer be required. The new entrants are: Sultan Abubakar Airport, Sokoto, following its approval on July 19. Birnin Kebbi Airport resumed on July 20, while Yakubu Gowon Airport, Jos; and Benin Airport, Benin, were given approvals to resume operations on July 24. The Minister, via his Twitter handle, said the recent approvals brought the total number of certified airports to 14. “I am glad to announce that the following airports are open for full domestic operations, hence ministerial approval in and out of them is not required. This includes private and charter operations. We will keep you informed on the remaining airports in due course,” he stated. Sirika recounted that the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, were approved for domestic operations on July 8. Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano; Port Harcourt International Airport, Omagwa; Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri; and Maiduguri Airport, Maiduguri, resumed on July 11.
Similarly, Victor Attah Airport, Uyo, opened on July 15, while Kaduna Airport, Kaduna; Yola Airport, Yola; and Margaret Ekpo Airport, Calabar, have also opened. Apparently taking advantage of more airports’ operational status, Arik Air resumed flight operations to the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano, and Yola Airport today. Both services will originate from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, with connections to and from Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. Public Relations and Communications Manager of the carrier, Adebanji Ola, confirmed the schedule. The airline will operate separate flights from Abuja to Kano and Yola. Flights from Abuja to Kano will operate four times weekly, while flights from Abuja to Yola will operate three times weekly. Passengers travelling from Lagos can connect seamlessly to these services from Abuja. The airline assured passengers of their safety and well-being at every stage of their flight, as the airline has put various measures in place in line with COVID-19 health protocols as recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), and the Federal Government of Nigeria. The airline reminds passengers to use their face masks at every stage of their flights, and arrive at least one and a half hours before their scheduled departure time.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .