August Alsina, Jada Pinkett and Will smith. Photo | today post Tears… what type of tears has been shed this week? With all the drama and revelations that filled up the week, it is not surprising that tears of joy quickly turned to pain for some. Here is a rundown of the week: African Giants
While Wizkid won the BET Her Award for his feature on Beyonce’s ‘Brown Skin Girl’ and Burna Boy won the track won him the Best International Act. This win makes Burna the first African artiste to have the BET awards win, it is also the second time that Burna will clinch the award.
While Nigerians celebrated this win, it is Burna Boy’s speech that caught everyone’s attention. Speaking on turning Africa into a dominated nation, he said, “in order for black lives to matter, Africa must matter.” We agree! Billionaire on the bloc! Who that?
Kanye West is known for making gnomic statements on social media so it comes as no surprise that he is celebrating his wife Kim Kardashian’s new billionaire status in an unusual way. He announced that the reality TV star and entrepreneur Kim is the latest member of the exclusive billionaire club after Coty bought a $200m (£162m) stake in her KKW Beauty brand. West posted a tweet featuring a bizarre message, flowers and vegetables. The rapper cum designer wrote: “You’ve weathered the craziest storms and now God is shining on you and our family.” A new win
In its efforts to increase female and ethnic minority membership, The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences invited 819 new people to The Academy this year, 36% are people of colour. Three Nigerians, Genevieve Nnaji, Cynthia Erivo and filmmaker Akin Omotosho, made this list. This move is coming after the Academy was criticised again at the Oscars this year for nominating just one non-white actor. Interestingly, the majority of actors invited to join this year were women, and more than half were from “underrepresented ethnic/racial communities,” said an Academy statement. Congratulations!!! Justice is served
Women who suffered sexual misconduct and workplace harassment by convicted rapist Harvey Weinstein are set to receive almost $19 million (N 7,362,500,000) as part of a class-action lawsuit, New York’s attorney general said.
The payments are the result of a lawsuit brought against the ex-film mogul, who is currently serving 23 years in prison. A lawyer, Douglas Wigdor, for several of Weinstein’s victims immediately slammed the proposed settlement, however. Wigdor described it as “a complete sellout.” He said that under the agreement, Weinstein “accepts no responsibility for his actions” and does not have to pay any of his own money towards the settlement. What is love?
Lovers of the Smith family have been asking themselves this question, and the reason is not far-fetched. There have been rumours that Jada Pinkett and Will Smith have had an open marriage for years. And now, American singer and songwriter August Alsina has given life to these rumours after he claimed that he dated the actress and her superstar husband Smith gave his blessings to the relationship. The singer who is 21 years younger than her said in an earlier interview that they were not dating but had as one of his lyrics, “you lost a man who loved you all along.”