The aggrieved All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders in Ekiti State, under the aegis of “Stakeholders Forum,” yesterday said that no amount of blackmail would make them withdraw the court case instituted against the alleged illegal executives put in place by Governor Kayode Fayemi-led government in the state. In a statement made available to newsmen in Ado-Ekiti and signed by the Forum’s Chairman, Mr. Tony Adeniyi and Secretary, Mr. Femi Adeleye, the aggrieved leaders said that the body at its meeting of Saturday, July 4, 2020, attended by several leaders across the state had resolved that the forum would pursue the case in court to a logical conclusion for the good of the party. The aggrieved leaders said that while they were in support of reconciliation, Fayemi and his cronies failed to invite members of the Forum, adding: “We would have loved to be there to present our case but they refused to invite us and we are not bothered because we know Fayemi do not want genuine reconciliation. “We are ready for genuine and sincere reconciliation where the injustices and illegalities perpetrated by the present leadership will be properly addressed.” The group, which expressed its love for APC and affirmed that their disagreement was not personal but patriotic, stated: “We do not want to lose elections in Ekiti State again. If we allow things to continue this way, our fate in 2022 will be worse than the first coming of Fayemi. “Our action is a wake-up call. We are also not against our party members holding executive offices. All we are asking for is legality, fairness and justice.” However, the APC State Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, in his reaction, has advised the aggrieved members to comply with the presidential and National Executive Council (NEC) orders to avert punishment. He said: “The NEC is the highest decision-making organ of the party. It had taken a decision coupled with the presidential order by President Muhammadu Buhari. So, I don’t expect the leaders to gamble with these orders as loyal party men.” “The State Executive Council and Ekiti State stakeholders’ caucus had also taken a position and said all members must comply. It is for the sake of the party and the action was not selfish. “If they should defy the orders and fail to withdraw the case in court, then we will apply the party’s constitution in dealing with the situation. “But we appeal to them to take the path of honour and withdraw the case honourably,” the party advised. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .