Experts are concerned that monies and materials donated by individuals and companies, to the Federal and State Governments, towards effective containment of Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) are not being appropriately accounted for.
      
The situation has generated a number of questions. How much was raised? Where is the money? In whose office is the money? What is the best practice on how, where to keep and spend the money? How much has been spent? What is the best practice and what is happening elsewhere?
       
The Federal Government approved an N10 billion grant (about $27 million) to fight the spread of coronavirus. But leading the effort to raise funds to contain the deadly virus is the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID). CACOVID is a private-sector platform led by the Central Bank Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele. Emefiele, last month, said over N29 billion has been donated so far by members of the coalition towards supporting government’s efforts in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and that the funds have been used to build and equip isolation centres across the country.  Indeed, experts have condemned poor accountability for monies and donations made towards COVID-19 containment. They, however, proffered solutions on how to ensure accountability for funds donated for the fight against COVID-19. A professor of Virology, pioneer Vice-Chancellor of Redeemer’s University, and Chairman, Expert Review Committee on COVID-19, Oyewale Tomori, told The Guardian: “In other places, there is transparency with accountability. We are told publicly how much was received and publicly how much was spent and on what, including who received the money and confirmation that he or she delivered.”
     
Oyewale, who is also, a former President of the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS), a Fellow of the College of Veterinary Surgeons of Nigeria and Fellow of the Royal College of Pathologists of the United Kingdom, said: “In Nigeria, COVID-19 donation is regarded as security money to manage health security. When last did you hear how much our governments- state and federal- from 1999 got as security vote and how it was spent.”  “It is also important to consider audits of government projects to be carried out by organisations outside the sphere of influence of the governments being audited. There are various oversight committee of the Senate, and the House of Representatives should be empowered, so also, must there be an independent oversight organisation.” Solutions
TO address the issue of accountability for COVID-19 funds, BudgIT launched its COVID-19 platform for tracking and monitoring of the utilisation of all donations from both local and international donors for COVID-19 response.  According to the Lagos-based organisation, to ensure proper monitoring, it has launched the COVID-19 platform, to ascertain if funds are being expended on not only measures that effectively combat the COVID-19 pandemic, but also on citizens’ welfare.
   
BudgIT’s Principal Lead, Gabriel Okeowo, said: “It has, therefore, become expedient to hold the government accountable on every penny dispensed for the COVID-19 response  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .