Ginger | Healthline Ginger is a flowering plant that originated in China. It belongs to the Zingiberaceae family and is closely related to turmeric, cardamom and galangal. The rhizome (underground part of the stem) is the part commonly used as a spice. It is often called ginger root, or simply ginger. There are several unknown benefits to this spice from adding flavour to foods, relieving nausea and gastrointestinal irritation, to reducing exercise-induced muscle pain and inflammation. There are several ways you can use ginger to add spice to your morning as it can be easily added to any meal of the day. Here are the different ways to add ginger to your morning and the benefits that come with it according to Healthline. Ginger tea Ginger tea for your daily dose of vitamin C Ginger tea can provide you with relief from an upset stomach, nausea, motion sickness, or pregnancy-induced morning sickness. Add spice to your morning cup of coffee Coffee is one of the world’s biggest sources of antioxidants and adding ginger to it not only makes it more delicious but it aids digestion. Also, the combination of ginger and coffee make a powerful free radical-fighting duo.  Spread a dash of ginger jam on your biscuits/toasts A spread of ginger jam and biscuits on toast or biscuits is a delicious snack and is a healthy option Add ginger juice to your smoothies (or mimosas!) Ginger juice boasts of health benefits like boosting metabolism and naturally fighting bacteria. Furthermore, it is good for treating pain, menstrual cramps and exercise-induced soreness. If you find ginger juice too strong, you can infuse it into your morning smoothie or post-workout protein shake. Fold them into your breakfast pastries You can have popular baked goods such as gingerbread, ginger-spiced cakes and pies. For people who exercise in the morning, they’re filled with healthy fats and protein to improve your performance. The medical information provided in this article is provided as an information resource only. This information does not create any patient-physician relationship and should not be used as a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.