BBNaija past winners | New Telegraph The fifth season of Big Brother Naija formerly known as Big Brother Nigeria is set to launch later today. The hit reality TV series is based on the Big Brother television franchise, in which 12 to 21 contestants live in an isolated house and compete for a large cash prize and other material gifts. To emerge, winner, the participants have to escape eviction from the house by viewers and earn the highest votes. As we prepare for the fifth season’s launch, we take a look at the previous winners from the last four seasons and the cash prize they took home. Season 1 (2006) – Katung Aduwak Katung Aduwak | Bet9ja BBN The first-ever season of Big Brother Naija held from 5 March to 4 June 2006 and at the time was called Big Brother Nigeria. The show was hosted by Michelle Dede and Olisa Adibua and saw a then 26-year-old Katung Aduwak emerge the winner. He took home the $100,000 prize money. He has gone on to do well for himself as he went bagged a directorial degree from the Digital Film Academy in New York. He is now a filmmaker, he produced and directed the movies “Unwanted Guest” and “Heaven’s Hell.” He also directed a number of music videos for Chocolate City, Styl Plus, Gabriel Afolayan and starred in EbonyLife TV’s “Desperate Housewives.”  Season 2 (2017) – Michael Efe Ejeba Efe Ejeba | Photo – Ventures Africa Over a decade after the first season of Big Brother Nigeria held the show returned entitled Big Brother Naija. It was themed “See Gobe” and premiered in January 2017 and saw 22 contestants vying for the N25 million grand prize. Ex-housemate Ebuka Obi-Uchendu from season one hosted the show that saw Efe Ejeba emerge the winner. Following his emergence as winner of the show, he moved from Jos to Lagos in order to kick-start his music career, The rapper released an EP called “Lagos EP.” He also collaborated with superstar rapper Olamide on the song “Warri.” The graduate of the Faculty of Economics has released other songs like “Based on logistics” and “I love you.” He continues to pursue his music career to date. Season 3 (2018) – Miracle Igbokwe Miracle Igbokwe The show returned for its third run on 28 January 2018 and was themed “Double Wahala”. Ebuka returned as host once again for the 12 weeks that the show aired. 20 housemates competed for N25 million cash prize. At the end of the season, Miracle Igbokwe from Io state carted home the grand prize. He was presented with a brand new Hyundai Tucson SUV, a N25 million cheque, home appliances worth N3 millon and a trip to an exotic location for two to total N45 million with of prizes. Miracle also won N1 million cash prize from Payporte Arena Games and N200,000 from the Final Wager. He also won the Pepsi Refresh Your Mix, which fetched him N1 million and a trip to Dubai for the One Africa Music Fest, and a year’s supply of Pepsi and Aquafina. After winning the show, he left for South Africa to an Aviation school to pursue his dreams. In 2019, Miracle obtained his certification as an “Instrument Rated” pilot. Season 4 (2019) – Mercy Eke Mercy Eke Photo – NaijaParrot The fourth season of Big Brother Naija launched on 30 June 2019 and was dubbed “Pepper Dem.” Unlike previous seasons, the show held in Nigera and aired for 99 days. The viewers watched 26 contestants vye for the N60 million worth prizes. For this season, Bet9ja Coins were introduced as a new house currency. Mercy Eke emerged the winner of the show and became the first female to win the reality TV show. She carted home a total of N60 million, including N30 million cash, N25 million worth of Innoson Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV), a trip to Dubai and other prizes. The video vixen and entrepreneur on March 14, 2020, received the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Award for Best Dressed Female. She also bought a house in Lekki, Lagos. She and her love interest during the show, Ike have gone on to launch their own reality show “Mercy & Ike.” She also launched her own real estate company, Lambe Homes. Mercy earlier this year talked about wanting her old life back due to the responsibilities that comes with fame.