 Fertiliser  The Kebbi State government has inaugurated a committee for the distribution and sale of fertiliser and other inputs to farmers for the 2020 wet season.
Inaugurating the committee on behalf of the state government, Chief of Staff to the State Government, Alhaji Suleiman Argungu, said the committee is to ensure that farmers in the state get the inputs as early as possible to boost food production. He added that the early actions taken by the state government would help the state to maintain its lead in the country in term of agriculture. Argungu further disclosed that the farmers would be given assorted improved seeds of millet, rice, sorghum and other inputs. According to Argungu, the Sovereign Wealth Fund of Nigeria has approved an assistance of 25 trailers assorted fertilizer to the state. He stated that the commodity would be bought from an indigenous firm in the state, Albarka Fertilizer Blending in Birnin-Kebbi. He said: “The committee will ensure equity and justice in the distribution of the commodity so as not to exclude any genuine farmer. It will also ensure that the commodity is not diverted to other states by the farmers.” The chairman of the committee, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, pledged to live above board in the discharge of his responsibility. Meanwhile, Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno State has commenced distribution of 300 tonnes (6,000 bags) of fertiliser to farmers for the wet season farming. While flagging off distribution at the weekend in Kwaya Kusar, Borno State, the Deputy Governor, Umar Kadafur, who represented the governor, disclosed that: “To ensure hitch-free distribution, a monitoring distribution panel has been set up,” noting that that would prevent the diversion of fertiliser meant for farmers in the 27 local government areas. In a breakdown of the distribution, the Commissioner of Agriculture, Alhaji Bukar Talba, disclosed that 180 trucks of fertiliser were to be distributed to nine councils in the South Senatorial district of the state. “It is therefore, necessary to provide agricultural inputs to farmers at the right time and at an affordable price,” he said, noting that it ensures high yields and productivity. “Food sufficiency is the major catalyst for security and prosperity and this administration will ensure that all the requirements for bumper harvest are provided,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .