The immediate past Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has, again, defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former Speaker along with the chairman, Caretaker Committee of the APC and Governor of Yobe state, Mai Mala Buni, met on Friday with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House, Abuja. Dogara, a member of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) served as the 14th Speaker of the House of Representatives. He currently represents Bogoro/Dass, Nigeria/Tafawa Balewa, Federal constituency of Bauchi State since 2007. He was led to the president’s office in the State House by Buni, who intimated Buhari of the latest development in the party. The former speaker did not speak when prodded by State House correspondents, but Buni confirmed that Dogara has become a member of the APC. Dogara left the APC for the PDP in 2019. However, fielding questions from State House Correspondents, Gov Buni said “We paid a courtesy call on the President in continuation of our effort to rebuild the party. We are here to see Mr President and brief him on the developments. On why he was in the villa in company of Dogara and member of the opposition PDP, Buni said Nigerians should not consider the development as a surprise. “They shouldn’t be surprised because the former Speaker is a member of the APC, and he is because the reason he left the APC is no more there.” Asked to be categorical as to whether the former Speaker had returned to the APC, Buni responded thus: “Yeah, he’s back.” Continuing, he said President Buhari “welcomed him (Dogara). He’s happy with the development. That’s what he’s looking for. We are rebuilding the party and these are the steps we are taking towards rebuilding the party. On what the party was doing to get more aggrieved members back to its fold, Buni said, “we are meeting all our aggrieved members, particularly those who have interest in coming back to the party. They should feel free to do so. We are assuring them and there is no crime in double assurance. “We will do justice to all our members and that’s what will bring peace and that is what will guarantee peaceful coexistence, that is what will bring the consolidation of the party, the rebuilding of the party. Without doing justice, you cannot achieve that and we are sure of doing justice to all our members.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .