Chairman of Jos North Council in Plateau State, Shehu Usman, has ordered the closure of the Primary Health Centre (PHC) in Angwan Rimi community after three workers tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) reportedly confirmed the workers’ test results. Senior Information Officer of the council, Philip Eplong, stated yesterday, “The primary healthcare clinic in Angwan Rimi, Jos North, has been sealed off following the COVID-19 positive test results of three medical personnel from the centre. Usman, who personally sealed the centre, said the health personnel were treating a patient who they thought had malaria but later realised that the patient had contracted COVID-19. The council boss pointed out that after a series of tests, three out of the 15 health workers at the centre tested positive. He called on health personnel to be cautious when handling any patient. The Supervisory Councillor of PHC in the area, Danladi Dashe, said the infected persons had been quarantined for proper treatment while the remaining 12 who tested negative had gone into self-isolation. He urged the people of Jos North not to panic as the council authorities were doing everything possible to stop further spread of the pandemic. IN another vein, Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has sworn in Justice Patrick Dapit as the acting president of Customary Court of Appeal (CCA), charging him to work towards deepening the rule of law. Lalong, who presided over the oath-taking ceremony at the Government House, Jos, said the acting president was taking over at a time of greater need to strengthen the judiciary to perform more efficiently. In a statement, yesterday, Director of Press and Public Affairs to the Governor, Dr. Makut Macham, quoted his principal as saying, “The judiciary remains a strong pillar of the Nigerian society and its democracy. As such, the people will continue to look up to judicial officers, especially judges, for justice, equity and the triumph of truth over falsehood. “My experience as a lawyer, a former legislator and now governor has strengthened my belief that the sanctity, integrity and independence of the judiciary must be defended at all costs, as anything to the contrary will lead to chaos, anomie and instability.” According to the governor, because the position carries with it huge responsibilities, the people must uphold judge in prayers as he discharges the duty faithfully, according to the laws of the land and oath of the office. He assured the people that his administration would continue to work with the judiciary and legislature to make the courts conducive for judges and staff members as well as all those who come to access justice or other services. Reacting, Dapit said he was not oblivious that the people at the grassroots look up to the customary court for justice. Dapit, who was born on June 15, 1959, obtained his law degree in 1985 from the University of Jos. He joined the Plateau judiciary in 1990 after practising for four years. He was appointed CCA judge in 2013. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .