• Hails judiciary on rule of law, integrity
• State APC asks Ajayi to resign or be impeached
• Expels lawmaker over anti-party conduct Ondo State Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, has called for the resignation of the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, David Oloyelogun, accusing him of incompetence and abuse of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Ajayi also lauded the state’s judiciary for its tenacity in protecting the laws of the land, saying it has given hope to the ordinary people who repose much trust in the arm of government. Chief Judge of the state, Justice Oluwatoyin Akeredolu, had declined the request by the House of Assembly, in a letter, to set up a seven-man panel to probe the deputy governor. Justice Akeredolu faulted the impeachment process on grounds that it did not conform with the provisions of the constitution. In a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday by the Media Adviser to Deputy Governor, Allen Sowore, he said: “The decision of the Chief Judge of Ondo State, Justice Olanrewaju O Akeredolu, in respect of the illegal and fraudulent move by a section of the Ondo State House of Assembly to impeach the state’s Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, has rekindled the confidence and hope of the people in the judiciary against tyranny and totalitarianism. “The decision is a triumph for the rule of law against brigandage and anarchy. “With the decision, the judiciary of Ondo State has demonstrated its independence and thus made a clear statement about its commitment to secure and sustain the principles and lofty ideals of our democracy. “It’s in this light that we demand the immediate resignation or removal of the  Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, David Oloyelogun. “This will go a long way to preserve our democratic gains, restore the dignity of the legislature and the principle of separation of power.” In a related vein, leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ese-Odo Local Council of Ondo State have insisted that the deputy governor must resign his position since he has dumped the party. They also expelled the only Assembly member representing Ese-Odo Constituency, Mr. Success Taiwo Torukerijoh, for anti-party conduct and misrepresentation of the party. The leaders, at a party meeting held yesterday in Igbekebo, the council headquarters, flayed the deputy governor over his refusal to vacate office after defecting to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). They said that the deputy governor could not continue to enjoy the privileges of APC since he had ditched the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .