• Police nab woman for strangling husband to death in Abia A 45-year-old man, Adamu Hassan, has been arrested for stabbing his wife to death in Gangawa, Jigawa State. The suspect allegedly stabbed his 25-year-old wife, Hauwa, to death over an undisclosed reason at about 11:00a.m. on July 3 and escaped. Detectives later tracked the suspect and arrested him. The spokesman of the Jigawa State Police Command, Abdu Jinjiri, confirmed the incident. He explained that the suspect stabbed the victim eight times with a knife, adding that the victim later died following the attack. According to the police spokesman, preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect acted based on the influence of drugs as he has been addicted to substance abuse for a long time. Jinjiri explained that the police received the shocking report on July 3, 2020 and rushed to the scene. Although the victim was taken to the hospital, she was, however, confirmed dead.The police authorities said the suspect, who fled the scene of the crime, was later arrested. “To this end, the police pursued the suspect on the run and arrested him. It was confirmed that the suspect and the deceased have two children and they have been in marriage for the past eight years,” he said.The victim has been buried by her relatives in line with Islamic rites. MEANWHILE, the Abia State Police Command has arrested one Mrs Rose Uwaga for allegedly strangulating her 83-year-old husband, Alhaji Isa Uwaga, to death in Umuahia. The Public Relations Officer of the command, SP Geoffrey Ogbonnaya,  	confirmed the arrest of the woman, said to be in her early 70s, to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday. Ogbonnaya said one of Uwaga’s children, Ibeabuchi, reported the matter to the police around noon on Thursday, July 2, adding that the body of the deceased had been deposited at the morgue “for possible autopsy in order to ascertain the real cause of death.” NAN learned that the aged couple had a disagreement, which degenerated into fisticuffs at their residence in Ohobo-Afara, Umuahia.
“During the fight, the man allegedly grabbed a machete to scare the wife, but the woman reportedly overpowered him. The machete fell off his hand and the woman, who is huge, pinned him down by the neck and strangled him to death,” a resident of the area said on condition of anonymity.
Another account had it that the deceased might have slumped and died “out of exhaustion after his quarrels with his wife. It is not possible that a woman of about 73 years can muster the strength to strangulate a man,” a friend of the family also said on condition of anonymity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .