• PDP faults APC’s claims on the destruction of billboards
• Oshiomhole vows to return Edo to the ruling party The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Edo State governorship election, Osagie Ize-Iyamu, yesterday, accused the political parties that endorsed Governor Godwin Obaseki of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of greed, saying they have lost focus. He alleged that they received payments from Obaseki with a promise of N65 million reward to endorse him (Obaseki). In a statement issued by Director of Media, Ize-Iyamu Governorship Campaign, John Mayaki, it said the parties had sold out their platforms and done incalculable damage to their potential for growth in the state by agreeing to support Governor Obaseki. A coalition of 35 political parties in Edo State had at the weekend collapsed their structures to support Obaseki’s re-election in the September 19 governorship poll. Leader of the coalition, Collins Dare Oreruan, who addressed a media briefing in Benin City, said the group comprised 35 registered political parties. Besides, the PDP faulted Ize-Iyamu over his claims that it was responsible for the destruction of APC billboards, as the electioneering campaigns begin in the state. Briefing journalists in Benin City, the state Publicity Secretary of PDP, Chris Nehikhare, accused the APC of making frivolous and unsubstantiated allegations against the PDP and the state government over the destruction of its billboards. Nehikare, who frowned on the accusation, said PDP or the state government have no hands in the damage of the billboards, saying the message on the billboards had exposed APC as an empty political entity that had nothing to offer Edo people. “PDP and Edo State Government cannot be blackmailed or distracted by the baseless allegations.  We advice APC to look inwards as it is common knowledge that the party is divided, populated by known thugs and brigands in its many factions. “Edo people have not forgotten how they resorted to bombing each others’ residences while vying for their gubernatorial ticket. Edo people have not forgotten the treachery, blackmail, and threats they employed to arrive at their predetermined candidate,” he said. Meanwhile, former National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, stated that his mission for Edo State and its people was to ensure victory for the APC in the September 19 governorship election. He said all hands must, therefore, be on deck to wrestle the state from the PDP and return it to the APC on September 19. Oshiomhole stated this while addressing his kinsmen and APC supporters at his Iyamho country home, in Etsako West Council Area of the state. Expressing hope that the APC would reclaim the state, Oshiomhole said the election was a walkover, having successfully driven away from the common enemies in the state chapter of the party. “We want to return to the government of the people by the people and for the people. We have a common mission to bring Edo back to the part of sustainable development. I am back and ready,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .