Kwankwasiyya Movement has asked the Chinese Development Bank (CDB) to reject the purported €684 million (N299 billion) loan request by Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje to finance light rail project in the state. The group loyal to former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso also requested the National Assembly and Debt Management Office (DMO) to save the state from enslavement. Speaking to newsmen in Abuja yesterday, spokesperson of the group, Aminu Abdulsalam, alleged that aside worsening the economic situation in the state, there were a lot of procedural violations associated with the proposed loan. Abdulsalam, who was also the deputy governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2019 general election, described the proposed project as “ill-conceived white elephant project coming at a time of global economic crisis compounded by COVID-19.” He added that the project was conceived without due cognisance of the technical and other financial requirements as encapsulated in the country’s procurement law. But Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to the Governor, Abba Anwar, told The Guardian that he was not aware of such planned borrowing and directed the reporter to the state’s ministry of information. The group added, “It also does not have technical and financial appraisal, as the loan is only intended to finance the rail track without taking care of the rolling stocks, dedicated power and provision of rail stations. This development has negated all the thought and perception of the good people of Kano, especially the Kwankwasiyya Movement. “Given all these, we are deeply disappointed that the APC Gandujiyya caucus members of the House of Assembly that are supposed to provide the necessary checks and balances and ensure that the interests of their constituents are promoted and protected have, without any regard to legislative procedures, given a blanket approval to the governor to collect this loan and enslave the innocent people of the state. “We are not surprised, though, because most of the members of the assembly arrived the house through dubious means akin the governor.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .