The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has commended the effort of the Federal Capital Territory Police Command over the arrest of three suspects allegedly linked to the gruesome murder of the late pharmacist, Sunday Chukwujekwu Ike. Ike, who was the Managing Director of Suncell Pharmacy, Gwarinpa and the National Publicity Secretary of the Association of Community Pharmacists of Nigeria (ACPN), was murdered at his duty post on June 19, 2020. The pharmaceutical body said the alleged suspects, Danbala Buba (42), Isah Rilwanu (24) and Abdulhamid Nasir (35), who are currently in police custody, is a major milestone in the investigation of the circumstances surrounding the dastardly act carried against the deceased. This was contained in a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Ijeoma Okey-Ewurum. The pharmaceutical body said it had requested the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to immediately take up and strengthen the investigation already initiated by the FCT Police Command on the matter, as the earlier killings of pharmacists in similar circumstances are yet to be unravelled. The body asked if the suspects had made confessions as to why they killed the decease, adding that their confessions could be of help to pharmacists as frontline health care workers. “While this arrest and recovery of our late colleague’s belongings bring a ray of hope, we would like to ask the following questions: Have these men made confessional statements? How did our near angel Pharm. Sunday wrong them so much that they couldn’t spare his life, even after dispossessing him of his valuables? “This senseless and avoidable loss is unquantifiable in a country with shortage of skilled health care workforce. The pharmacist-to-patient ratio currently is about 1: 8,000. The PSN, however, insisted that efforts should be intensified to arrest the leader of the gang, who allegedly is at large. “We are confident in the professionalism of the Nigeria Police Force and the willingness of the Abuja Command to speedily bring these wicked and evil men to book. Our prayer is that they should be served justice while it is steamy hot,” the body said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .