 Ukachi  At least, twelve times He used the description, “My rock.” There is a certain level of intimacy when you say, “God is my Rock.” In Psalm 18:46, David declared, “The Lord lives! Praise to my Rock! May the God of my salvation be exalted!” (Psalms 18:46 NLT). For David, the Lord, his rock, lives! This means that beyond any shadow of a doubt, God was so real to David. We, too, can have the same intimate relationship with God.‬ A rock is a place of shelter and safety during a storm. It is a place of refuge. A rock symbolises trust, strength, support and confidence. It is a symbol of stability and defence. But these qualities about God will remain mere platitudes unless we have a relationship with Him and unless we acknowledge Him as our rock. Moses described Israel’s God as “their Rock.” But the irony is that not all the children of Israel saw God in that light. They did not acknowledge Him as one and they had no personal relationship with God as their rock. If they did, they would not have turned their backs on Him. Unless we know Him, He cannot be our rock. To know God is to be in a right relationship with Him, with characteristics of love, trust, respect, and open communication. Knowing involved intimacy and experience, as in a marriage relationship. Because they did not know God, it was not surprising that they turned their backs on Him. “But Israel soon became fat and unruly; the people grew heavy, plump, and stuffed! Then they abandoned the God who had made them; they made light of the Rock of their salvation” (Deuteronomy 32:15 NLT).‬ “You neglected the Rock who had fathered you; you forgot the God who had given you birth. “The Lord saw this and drew back, provoked to anger by his own sons and daughters” (Deuteronomy 32:18 -19 NLT). For God to be the rock of our lives, we must know Him and acknowledge Him. David said to Solomon his son, “And you, my son Solomon, acknowledge the God of your father, and serve him with wholehearted devotion and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches every heart and understands every desire and every thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will reject you forever” (1 Chronicle 28:9 NIV).‬ Those who make God their rock trust Him. “Those who trust in the Lord are as secure as Mount Zion; they will not be defeated but will endure forever” (Psalm 125:1 NLT).‬ Those who make God their rock will be totally committed to Him. “For I have stayed on God’s paths; I have followed his ways and not turned aside. I have not departed from his commands, but have treasured his words more than daily food” (Job‬23:11-12 NLT). The first stanza of the old hymn is a reminder that our God is the Rock of Ages in whom we can take refuge. “Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide in Thee; Let the water and the blood, From Thy riven side which flowed, Be of sin the double cure, Save me from its guilt and power.” There is no other place of refuge for the Christian in this season of Coronavirus pandemic than in God, our Rock. Those who take shelter in Him are like Mount Zion that cannot be moved. Contact: pastoracukachi@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .