The African Women Network (TAWN), a non-profit organisation established to give African women a voice in society and empower them to contribute to societal growth, has called for full engagement of womenfolk in all walks of life to ensure inclusive growth and development. The group made the call during its week-long celebration, themed: ‘Stand Out and Speak Up,’ to mark its third anniversary. According to Mrs Gift Ozy Martins, founder of TAWN, it is important to involve women in the task of nation building because of their special natural talents to nurture and transform.   
 
“A woman is the full circle. Within her is the power to produce, nurture and transform. Our organisation understands that women are the real architects of the society because when they participate in the economy, everyone benefits. They are needed at all levels,” she said.
 
Martins noted that the call became necessary because societies all over the world, particularly in Africa, are going through a difficult phase in their development circles brought about by the dangerous coronavirus pandemic. She added: “Rebuilding communities will be an arduous task that will require contributions from every citizen, especially the special skills and talents that women possess.”
 
Martins decried the rising cases of violence against women and the girl child in society, including rape, physical and emotional abuse, sexual harassment, female genital mutilation (FGM), and cultural bias, among others, adding that TAWN will continue to advocate for a better deal for the African woman.
 
Activities organised to mark the third anniversary included award ceremonies, virtual conference, training courses, raffle draws and business start-up sponsorships, among others.
 
The president of TAWN, Mrs Patoris Okeahialam, urged every woman to “stand out in our various spaces and endeavours, and speak up on behalf of the voiceless and the weak in our society.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .