 Students of Oluyole High School during their resumption for academic activities amid COVID-19 pandemic in Ibadan… yesterday.  When The Guardian visited some schools in Bodija, Eleiyele, Molete, Iwo Road and Odo-Ona-Elewe areas of the state both public and private schools complied with the coronavirus protocol with hand-washing buckets and sanitisers put at the entrance of each school. Students were also seen seated with enough distance from each other. Principal of Methodist Secondary School, Mr. Ajadi Emmanuel Akinsola, said that the students came massively and the turnout was encouraging. He said: “The students came and the response was encouraging. About 60 out of 80 students in the senior class were available. In JSS 3, about 100 of them were available out of 130 students.” He, therefore, urged parents in the terminal classes to allow their children come to schools. The state’s Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Olasunkanmi Olaleye, while speaking on the resumption, assured the parents, guidance and all stakeholders of the children’s safety, stressing that the state government had taken necessary steps to guide the children. Meanwhile, the state’s Commissioner of Police (CP), Nwachukwu Enwonwu, has assured residents of the state of their security, as secret society groups will be organising celebration across the South-West. A statement made available to journalists in Ibadan by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Olugbenga Fadeyi, read in part: “The Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu, wishes to inform the peace-loving people of Oyo State that the yearly celebration of secret cult groups, popularly known as ‘’Aiye Confraternity’’ on July 7, and ‘’Buccaneer’’, also known as “Eiye Confraternity” on August 8 every year across the South-West states of Nigeria, has come to the notice of the Command and adequate security measures have been emplaced to forestall any unlawful assembly and breakdown of law and order/loss of life associated with such unauthorised activities. “The police command further wishes to reassure the people and the entire citizenry that the police in Oyo State are on top of the situation and are working assiduously to clamp down on aforementioned secret cult groups. “The command hereby enjoined all and sundry to go about their lawful businesses as the police will not give any breathing space to these unscrupulous elements to create chaos or breach of peace in any part of the state. “The commissioner of police, therefore, warns any individual or groups and also advised parents to sternly warn their children/wards who are bent on causing mayhem on the 7/7/2020 and 8/8/2020 to desist from such planned dastardly acts or change their ways and refrain from testing the will and capacity of the police/security agencies in Oyo State. “In the light of this, the commissioner of police consequently solicit support from the entire citizenry by way of giving useful information to the police when these cult groups known as “Aiye Confraternity” operates in black beret with axe inscription and 7/7 boldly written on the axe on July 7, 2020 and “Eiye Confraternity” operating in blue beret and yellow socks on August 8, 2020 in any part of Oyo State.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .