As coronavirus infection cases continue to go up across the world, healthcare workers at the frontline battling efforts to contain its spread are at risk of hazards such as long working hours, psychological distress, fatigue, occupational burnout, and infections. To reduce the impact and protect the medical personnel, Lluvia Health, a non-profit organization, has donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to them alongside food relief for families with the aim of building resilient communities. Dr. Amenze Eguavoen, Director/Founder of Lluvia Health, said: “Major gaps exist in the response capacity especially in the shortage of PPE for healthcare workers and the socio-economic crisis that is draining resources of families. As the pandemic persists, it is vital that the lives of healthcare workers are protected. “To help, we are providing PPE sets consisting of N95s, surgical gowns, face shields, gloves, and sanitizers to healthcare workers in government-owned facilities across the different tiers of health services. So far, we have donated to Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) and Primary Health Centers (PHCs) across Lagos. “Also, to protect families from the financial hardships caused by the pandemic, we collaborated with the Lagos State Resilience Office (LASRO) to provide food relief to over 400 people, mostly women and children.” The Director Clinical Services and Training, Lagos, Dr. Mustafa Ibrahim, who received the team, expressed gratitude to Eguavoen and her team. He likened the frontline health workers as soldiers who are in a battle that just has to be won, “and we have been moving gallantly by trudging on the best way we can.” He went on to point out that donation of PPE the hospital has received from the public do not go unappreciated and he encouraged well-meaning Nigerians to do more as “no item given to us is too small.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .