Apart from many health benefits associated with playing golf, some notable members of the prestigious Ibadan Golf Club, who seldom play the game, have also listed numerous advantages they derive from the sport. Golf, according to them, help drive the tourism industry, creates jobs for youths and businesses, as well as open the host community to the outside world. One of the members, Evangelist Ogunkeyede Ajibola, said it was unfortunate that government and the corporate world have failed to leverage the tourism potential of golf, adding that tourism activities in host communities are far-reaching and could lead to physical development and uplifting of the social and economic life of residents. Ogunkeyede, who is the team leader of the Ufitfly brand that always supports activities of IGC, added that golfing activities open the host communities to the outside world through social integration evolving from interactions between visitors and host individuals, which in turn boosts local businesses and also creates jobs. “This is not to mention the addition to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of a nation’s economy. Golf tourism falls under the umbrella of sports tourism, one of the fastest-growing areas in the tourism industry,” the tour broker noted. He defined Golf tourism as travel away from home to participate in or observe the sport of golf, or to visit attractions associated with golf. “Within the last few decades, sports and tourism professionals have begun to recognize the significant potential of sport tourism, and we are now aggressively pursuing this attractive market niche. These are what brought me closer to the game of golf despite not having much time to play,” he said. Another prominent member of IGC, Bashiru Akande, also attested to the many health benefits associated with the game of golf but said that scores of issues could also be settled on and off the golf course, as one will definitely meet people from many walks of life and network businesswise. Bashiru, who owns a popular fashion outfit in Ibadan, said the love of his 11-year-old son for golf actually drew him to the game, but he had derived many business benefits since he joined IGC about six years ago. “My son, Jubril Akande plays actively in the junior cadre of golf competitions, and I always love to watch him play. Soon, I can also find time to learn how to play the game but I am quite active socially within the club,” said Akande. Semiu Adenekan, a top socialite in Ibadan, who is popularly known as DJ Semight, is also a member of Ibadan Golf Club that has never played the game, but he is active within the club’s social scene. Adenekan described the golf club’s bar as a perfect place to enjoy the friendly company of the playing and non-playing members, adding that he had contributed immensely to the social growth of the foremost golf club. “I have been a member of this club almost from its inception, not only IGC, but also Ibadan Polo Club. This is where I unwind and relate with friends businesswise and otherwise. “I don’t like football considering the tension attached to it, I consider people watching it as a time-waster. “I recommend the game for professionals and upwardly mobile businessmen that hardly have time to recreate because it is a good means of relaxation with great health advantages,” said DJ Semight. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .