The Ekiti State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, engaged each other in war of words over alleged plot to destabilise the government. APC said opposition party’s activities, in recent times, lent credence to assertion that it was nursing a sinister agenda to incite the people against  Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s administration. A statement in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, by its Director of Media and Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, said all criticisms being churned out by PDP were meant to distract the government, rather than being constructive. “From available records, since the imposition of Caretaker Committee on PDP in the state, members, rather than facing their assignment, are only interested in causinßg trouble, by dishing out lies to the public. “This is a committee that has not seen anything good in Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s administration, rather than embarking on constructive criticisms expected of a formidable opposition party. “The APC in the state, for the umpteenth time, encourages the opposition PDP, especially members of the Caretaker Committee, to first remove the logs in their eyes before attempting to remove the pecks in others’ eyes…” Dispelling the allegation, the Secretary of the Ekiti PDP Caretaker Committee, Diran Odeyemi, described the accusation against the party as a misdirected venom, saying the caretaker’s activities in Ekiti have been a blessing. Odeyemi said PDP, as a responsible opposition, has been putting Fayemi on his toes with constructive criticisms. Odeyemi said: “On the issues we have raised against the government beginning from N770m demolished  Abuja Governor’s Lodge, government’s extortionate recruitment exercise to the 15 percent to be signed off by pensioners to get their gratuities, all were truths and verifiable. Even the government, up till now, has not debunked them or said they were lies. They have always been dishing out lies to justify their actions…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .