 Ayodele Fayose  Fayose said the party was not in need, and neither was it interested in the defection of the duo to the party despite their differences with Governor Kayode Fayemi “because they have no electoral value.” However, Ojudu and Adeyeye, who are members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), are locked in a rift with Fayemi over the governor’s alleged dictatorship and victimisation of members of the party. Based on this feud, when asked on a radio programme aired in Ado-Ekiti if he would join the PDP, Ojudu dismissed the question, saying he would never contemplate such move. He said: “If I die and they put PDP flag on my coffin, I will wake up, tear it and go back to sleep.” But angered by the comment, Fayose, in a statement yesterday by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, said: “Apart from them not having electoral value, they are blackmailers and individuals whose needs are insatiable. Above all, God’s anger has caught up with them in their inordinate quest for power.” The former governor described Ojudu as a political “opportunist”, who is always fighting for his own selfish gains, saying: “He fought against Niyi Adebayo, myself, Segun Oni and he is fighting Fayemi now. Who will please him in Ekiti? “As for us in the PDP, we are not interested in making any gain from the reckless political life of a man who does nothing other than to destroy the government of Ekiti State.” Meanwhile, a chieftain of the APC and former deputy governor, Abiodun Aluko, has appealed to the aggrieved APC leaders to embrace reconciliation efforts and allow Fayemi to consolidate and deliver the dividends of democracy to Ekiti people. “It’s when we all support the governor without distraction that he can do more and perform to the optimum so that Ekiti people can always prefer the APC to any other political party in all future elections and ensure continuity of delivery of good governance and development of Ekiti State in all facets of life,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .