With the planned release of his third studio album dubbed Afro-Pop Volume 1, on August 21, 33-year-old singer Adekunle Kosoko, better known as Adekunle Gold, has announced that the album is a unique and experimental body of work that would usher a progressive twist to his discography. According to the Lagos-born singer, the 10-track sound-piece, which he specially connotes as ‘African Popular Music’, is a reflection of his growing versatility, which fans have witnessed since his sophomore album, About 30, which he released in 2018. “This album is different; nobody has ever named an album a new genre before. I wanted to coin all the sounds I put together on this album. I have been looking for an avenue to express myself limitlessly. It’s African popular music,” he told RWD magazine, recently. Sharing the album’s track-list on his social media pages, the rave of the moment hit, AG Baby, crooner disclosed that that other songs on the album include: Sabine; Pretty Girl, featuring Patoranking; Okay, Here For Ya; Exclusive, featuring Olayinka Ehi; Firewood, featuring Tekno; Something Different, Water Carry Me, My Ex. The proud father of one further stated that so far, the two singles releases preceding the album – Something Different and AG Baby featuring Caribbean singer, Nailah Blackman, have continued to gather widespread acceptance from his enthusiastic fan base. The songs affirm Adekunle Gold’s improved eclectic singing style; especially AG Baby, which features a unique blend of jazz, Caribbean percussion and Afrobeat rhythm. Gold stated that his experimental sound-style is influenced by his artistic experience and personality. “With me, as my ear grows for new sounds, so does my mind; and so does my pen. I have decided to do Afro-Pop because that is how I am feeling. I am feeling different sounds. I am listening to a lot of genres now and my ears are tuned a different way this time,” he told Afrobeats Intelligence. Sharing his confidence in selling an experimental album to a largely monotonic and restless Nigerian music audience, the Arts and Design graduate said: “This is the time for Afro-Pop. I am making Afro Pop because that is where my mind is sonically. My music is like my baby it is my music is my story. With Adekunle Gold you don’t know what to expect really.” Presently in partnership with US-based music distributor, Empire, Gold broke into limelight, following the release of Sade, his 2014 cover of the English Boy-band’s one direction, Story of My Life. The song went on to clinch the Best Alternative Song at the 2015 Headies. His musical breakthroughs multiplied when he signed under Olamide’s YBNL Records, where he later released his debut album titled Gold, a 16 tracker in 2016. The album peaked at number seven on the Billboards World Album Chart. Following the expiration of his contract with YBNL in 2018, he left the label. He independently released his sophomore album, About 30, which marked the beginning of his sound re-definition.