Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) (https://bit.ly/2OLtl19), a global provider of critical digital infrastructure and continuity solutions, has announced key additions to its award-winning Vertiv™ Partner Programme (VPP) along with an enhanced suite of edge-ready products (https://bit.ly/3juHD4o), including rack power distribution units (rPDU), uninterruptible power supplies (UPS), rack cooling systems, dedicated software and services for partners and customers in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA).  Download Document here: https://bit.ly/2CDP4Wc  Following the successful launch of the VPP last year (https://bit.ly/2CFupB9), Vertiv has seen a tenfold increase in its channel partner base across EMEA and is continuing to add benefits for new and existing partners. The brand-new partner relationship management (PRM) system and the enhanced partner portal will enable Vertiv partners to take immediate advantage of tailored trainings to match partner requirements; new sales and marketing tools; online trainings and certification; and product selectors and configurators. The new suite of tools has been designed to help partners develop key skills and knowledge and achieve greater differentiation and profitability along with increased business opportunities.  Joachim Fischer, EMEA channel sales director at Vertiv, said: “We see digitalisation gaining pace and 5G is becoming an ever-closer reality, with more than three-quarters (https://bit.ly/3eRiUnc) of global telecom operators expecting to be delivering 5G services by 2021. Our enhanced partner programme will continue to equip resellers with the best in class products and services to face the new challenges that technological advances will uncover, such as the critical need for edge deployments. We are committed to the future of the VPP (https://bit.ly/3hqS9HW), and, building on an exceptional year, continuing to deliver the highest level of support to allow our channel partners to excel”.  The new suite of products further enhance Vertiv’s comprehensive portfolio of IT technologies and services, tying these into a complete and flexible single-source rack-based solution including:     All of these offerings enable EMEA resellers to earn more points through the Vertiv™ Incentive Programme (VIP), which allows partners to quickly monetise rewards. From July 2020, an enhanced programme known as VIP+ will bring even more benefits to resellers through the silver, gold and platinum level of membership, including lower entry barriers, additional incentives upon registering and higher returns on certain packages. The additions to the scheme will enable even more partners to take advantage of the programme while developing key skills and knowledge at their own pace.  Murtaza Loka, Finance and Purchasing Head at BurhanTec, said: “Working in partnership with Vertiv was already a no brainer due to their world class market position and global end to end product set. This has been enhanced significantly by the Vertiv Partner Program with a range of benefits which has allowed us to take even greater advantage of what Vertiv can offer”. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Vertiv. Media Contact:
APO Group – Pr Agency
E: marika.henry@apo-opa.com
E: lerato.chiyangwa@apo-opa.com
T:  +27 79 687 0803 About Vertiv:
Vertiv (NYSE: VRT) (https://www.Vertiv.com/) brings together hardware, software, analytics and ongoing services to ensure its customers’ vital applications run continuously, perform optimally and grow with their business needs. As Architects of Continuity™, Vertiv solves the most important challenges facing today’s data centers, communication networks and commercial and industrial facilities with a portfolio of power, cooling and IT infrastructure solutions and services that extends from the cloud to the edge of the network. Headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, USA, Vertiv employs approximately 20,000 people and does business in more than 130 countries. For more information, and for the latest news and content from Vertiv, visit Vertiv.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .