Harry And Meghan Sue Paparazzi For Taking Illegal Pictures Of Their Son Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have filed a lawsuit in California accusing unnamed paparazzi photographers of taking ‘illegal’ drone pictures of their son Archie. The lawsuit filed on Thursday alleges ‘serial intrusions’ into 14-month old Archie’s privacy at the LA home where Harry and Meghan have been living since March according to a report by the Daily Mail. The couple says they are taking legal action to protect Archie from a ‘manufactured feeding frenzy’ after claiming that the paparazzi had flown helicopters over their home and cut holes in a fence to take pictures. They also accuse photographers of putting misleading captions on pictures of Archie in the back garden in order to suggest they were taken in a public place. Meghan, Harry, and one-year-old Archie have been staying at Hollywood producer Tyler Perry’s $18 million mega-mansion in the exclusive neighborhood of Beverly Ridge since moving to LA in March. In their lawsuit, they say they took considerable privacy measures at Tyler’s mansion, including the erection of a large mesh fence around the property to guard against telephoto lenses. But they can’t protect against drones which are being flown a mere 20 feet above the house as often as three times a day. Helicopters have also flown over the residence as early as 5:30 am and as late as 7 pm, the legal papers allege, which had the effect of waking neighbours and their son, day after day. The duke and duchess say they expect to be followed when they go out in public but state that certain paparazzi and enablers have crossed a red line. Harry and Meghan’s complaint accuses the paparazzi of ‘intimidation, harassment, and the addition of a very real security threat on top of what already exists. The lawsuit filed by Kump said some media outlets flew helicopters above the home and photographers had even cut holes in their fence to snap pictures. Since Harry and Meghan do not know who took the pictures, the lawsuit targets unnamed defendants, which allows the couple to pursue anyone selling the images.