• Begins implementation of revised service agreements The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has begun the implementation of the revised framework stipulating the processes for resolving consumer complaints arising from service delivery by telecoms operators.
  
The Service Level Agreements (SLAs) document, which was reviewed last year by NCC, is meant to achieve greater effectiveness in the sector, and to strengthen the protection of telecoms consumers and other stakeholders.  “In the reviewed CC/SLA, with respect to the broad category of Quality of Service and Quality of Experience (QoS and QoE) in the data segment, when a telecom subscriber experiences fluctuation in service, such as instability in internet services, the subscriber shall be contacted by the service provider within four hours of reporting the incident, and the disruption shall be restored within 72 hours.  If escalated to NCC, the Commission shall revert to the subscriber within two hours of receiving the report and ensure that the matter is resolved within 48 hours in line with the Quality of Service (QoS) Regulations, and the subscriber shall be communicated.
  
“Also, under the new CC/SLAs that have now come into force, in the case of sales promotion and advertisement, when a subscriber does not receive within the stipulated time, bonus or incentives won during promotions, the service provider shall resolve the matter within 12 hours of receiving the complaints, instead of 24 hours as stipulated in the hitherto existing categorisation and agreement. If escalated to NCC, the Commission shall ensure it is resolved within six hours in line with the Guidelines on Advertisement and Promotions. As in all cases, the subscriber shall be communicated on steps taken towards the resolution of complaints.
  
“Similarly, in the expansive category of call centre/customer care, the NCC agreed with stakeholders that when a subscriber is unable to connect to the call centre or service provider helpline, the matter shall be treated by the service provider within four hours of receiving the report. Where the matter is escalated to the commission, NCC shall ensure that the issue is resolved within two hours of receiving the complaints, and steps taken towards resolution shall be communicated to the subscriber in all circumstances.”
  
On matters connected to faulty terminals, such as defective devices that stifle a subscriber’s ability to use phones, modems, routers and related devices appropriately, such incidents should be resolved based on terms and conditions for all devices.
  
Furthermore, matters relating to Base Transceiver Stations (BTS), such as problems arising from installation and location of base stations, masts or towers, shall be resolved by the concerned operator(s) within the 48 hours.
  
In case the Commission is notified by the affected consumer, the matter shall be referred immediately to its Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement Department, which shall ensure resolution of the matter within 48 hours and inform the complainant accordingly.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .