 Manchester City’s English midfielder Tommy Doyle (R) tangles with Newcastle United’s Scottish midfielder Matt Ritchie (L) during the English Premier League football match between Manchester City and Newcastle United at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England, on July 8, 2020. (Photo by LEE SMITH / POOL / AFP)  City lost for the ninth time in the league this season at Southampton on Sunday despite dominating possession and chances in a recurring theme of their season. But Pep Guardiola’s men have also shown what they are capable of when at their best since football’s restart last month, winning all four games at the Etihad by a combined score of 17-0. “We played good, the same level as the last games. Today we score the goals we missed the last game,” said Guardiola. Gabriel Jesus was one of the main culprits when it came to missed chances at St Mary’s, but the Brazilian got the confidence boost he needed on just 10 minutes as he steered David Silva’s cross into the far corner. Kevin De Bruyne then moved to within one of Thierry Henry’s record of 20 Premier League assists in a season with another low cross that picked out Riyad Mahrez for a simple finish. There was more than a hint of fortune to City’s third as Matt Ritchie’s attempted clearance ricocheted off Federico Fernandez into his own net. Silva’s appearances at the Etihad are running out with the Spaniard ending his 10-year stay in Manchester when City’s season finishes in August, but he left another reminder of why he will be so missed with a sumptuous free-kick to make it 4-0. And Silva turned provider again in stoppage time for Raheem Sterling to round off the scoring. “His performance today and in the last games, the level he is having is the best of the season,” added Guardiola. “Ok the fans are not here but he is coming back to make the farewell game in front of all the fans.” City will find out next week if the club’s appeal against a two-season ban from European competition to the Court of Arbitration for Sport has been successful. But they have almost done the job on the field to qualify for the Champions League for a 10th consecutive season with a 14-point lead over fifth-placed Manchester United, who have five games remaining. Wolves’ struggle to score goals since the restart has hampered their push for the top four as Nuno Espirito Santo’s men fell to a second straight defeat when John Egan’s powerful header grabbed Sheffield United a 1-0 win in stoppage time at Bramall Lane. Victory moves the Blades up to seventh, within one point of Wolves, who remain seven points adrift of the top four. At the bottom of the table, West Ham failed to give themselves more breathing space from the bottom three with a 1-0 home defeat by Burnley. Jay Rodriguez’s header seven minutes before half-time moved the Clarets into the top half of the table. West Ham remain four points above the relegation zone, but Villa and Bournemouth, who host Manchester United and Tottenham respectively, have the chance to narrow that gap on Thursday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .