The Michelle Obama Podcast The former first lady will host “The Michelle Obama Podcast.” The podcast will focus on meaningful relationships and conversations, this was announced on Thursday by her production company with former President Barack Obama, Higher Ground, in conjunction with Spotify. This is set to debut on the music streaming service on July 29 of this year. According to the press release: Hosted by Michelle Obama, the series will bring listeners the former First Lady’s most candid and personal conversations, showing us what’s possible when we allow ourselves to be vulnerable, to open up, and to focus on what matters most. The episodes, the companies said, will center on the relationships that shape us, from siblings and close friends to partners, parents, and mentors to our relationship with ourselves and our health. Guests will include Marian and Craig Robinson, Michelle Obama’s mother and brother; late-night host Conan O’Brien; top Obama White House adviser Valerie Jarrett; journalist Michele Norris; and Dr. Sharon Malone, who is married to former Obama-era Attorney General Eric Holder. Michelle Obama expressing her expectations about the podcast said: I hope the series can be a place to explore meaningful topics together and sort through so many of the questions we’re all trying to answer in our own lives. Perhaps most of all, I hope this podcast will help listeners open up new conversations, and hard conversations, with the people who matter most to them. That’s how we can build more understanding and empathy for one another. The podcast isn’t her first project in such a public, deep truth-telling exercise. Since leaving the White House, she has pursued a number of projects and initiatives, including publishing a bestselling memoir, “Becoming,” and releasing a documentary film by the same name. During her tenure, she was a reflection of modern motherhood and independence. Expressing her thoughts on different topics and speaking publicly. She was accessible to many people and equally served as motivation to them.