Lifeless body of a day-old baby wrapped with umbilical cord and placenta was found on a refuse dump in Gwallameji area of Bauchi metropolis yesterday. A 14-year-old boy, who discovered the body, said he was scavenging plastic wastes when he stumbled on the baby. “I was about picking a plastic when I saw the baby. Immediately, I called my brother to come and see, but he refused and ran away from the place. We saw a man walking and told him. He looked at it, but also walked away. I then went to call our neighbour and my mother who came to see what I had told them.” Commenting on the incident, the Sarkin Gwallameji, Sanusi Sani, said he was called by his commander, whose house is close to where the baby was found, about the incident. “I was sad beyond words over what I heard and what I also came and saw. A similar thing like this had happened some years back when we found a newborn baby in a well with water. This is a burden on everyone, not just the leaders. Residents should report any pregnant woman they know is not married so that we will forestall this kind of recurrence,” he appealed. The community leader said he immediately informed the Yelwa Divisional Police headquarters about the incident and they also sent some of their men to the place. He said that the community had started investigating the matter. “We have informed all our commanders around, including Rafin Zurfi area, to investigate if they will find any lady that was pregnant and the pregnancy is no more and who cannot explain the whereabouts of their baby.” Gwallamaji is the host community of the Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi. The community leader believes that even though the polytechnic is not in session and students are not around, it is not unlikely that a student of the institution could have done it to hide her pregnancy. Meanwhile, the Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, DSP Ahmed Wakili, confirmed the incident, saying that investigation had begun. He said: “Yes, it is true that an abandoned baby was found this morning at Gwallameji area. Our men went there and took pictures and discovered that the baby had started decaying. “We have launched an investigation into the matter and efforts are on to identify and arrest the culprit so that she can face the full wrath of the law,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .