Activist cautions youths, politicians against violence The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has received non-sensitive materials for the September 19 governorship election in Edo State. It promised to use the 2019 voters register for the election, which has 2,210,334 registered voters, adding that due to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) crisis, there would be no distribution of unclaimed Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). The Public Affairs Officer of INEC in Edo, Mrs. Tina Obamogie, who disclosed this in Benin City, said the materials had been distributed to the 18 councils ahead of the election. According to her, No fewer than 14 political parties will be participating in the election. “There are 483,868 unclaimed PVCs, but due to the of coronavirus pandemic, this is not the period to distribute PVCs,” she added.The commission, last Friday, displayed the credentials of the 14 governorship candidates that will slug it out in the September 19 ballot.
FOLLOWING this, human rights activist, Patrick Eholor, urged politicians and youths in the state to eschew all forms of electoral violence before and during the ballot. “Youths have become readily tools for unscrupulous politicians in their bid to win elections at all costs,” Eholor noted, warning youths to reject such offers.He appealed to the political actors, particularly the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to maintain peace during the election. The founder of One Love Foundation equally harped on the need for stakeholders to begin early advocacy and sensitiSation of the electorate on the dangers of electoral malpractices and violence. Those whose credentials were displayed include Godwin Obaseki (PDP), Osagie Ize-Iyamu (APC), Paul Obhafuoso (Action Alliance), Akhigbe Ehiabhi (African Democratic Congress), Ibio Emmanuel (African Democratic Party) and Lucky Idehen (All Progressives Grand Alliance). Others are Igbineweka Osamuede (Allied Peoples Movement), Amos Areloegbe (All Peoples Party), Osifo Isaiah (Labour Party), Agolebun Tracy (New Nigeria Peoples Party), Stevie Ozono (National Rescue Movement), Felix Obayangbon (Social Democratic Party), Jones Osagiobare (Young Progressive Party) and Akhalamhe Amiemenoghena (Zenith Labour Party).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .