•Army probes attack on gov’s convoy, officer kills colleague
Governor Babagana Zulum, who on Wednesday evening survived an ambush by Boko Haram insurgents at Kukawa near Baga, a Borno fishing town on the border of Lake Chad, has accused the Nigerian Army of lack of commitment to secure the settlement and other communities on the basin. Other neighbourhoods in the area are Cross Kauwa and Monguno. The attack on the governor’s convoy happened while he was on a food distribution trip to camps of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the region. Two members of the civilian joint task force (JTF) and a policeman sustained injuries during the incident. Zulum stated: “The shooting has happened. We remain grateful to the Nigerian Army. But the commitment is not there.” He, consequently, returned Monguno to share foodstuffs to over 35,000 refugees. Also, the governor’s procession had early this year been attacked while returning from Konduga where he went to distribute food items and inspect a 500-unit housing project. In the interim, the military has begun investigation into the event. Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Colonel Sagir Musa, who made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja, noted that details were still sketchy. He added that the area would be combed to track the attackers. “An investigation is also in progress to identify the circumstances that led to the attack,” he said. The spokesman, who described the violence as an isolated case, added that normalcy had returned to the locality. Sagir maintained that the governor had paid a visit to the Commander, 19 Brigade at the Nigerian Army Super Camp, Baga where he was “fully briefed about the prevailing security situation in the general area.” “The unfortunate incident occurred shortly after the governor and his entourage departed the Super Camp to visit other parts of Baga town. The incident forced the governor to abort his planned movement to Baga,” he clarified. More so, a trooper serving in 202 Battalion of 21 Special Armoured Brigade Bama has killed a colleague and newly wed, Lieutenant Babakaka Shehu Ngorgi. The spokesman said the assailant had been arrested and was being interrogated. He added that the “general situation in the unit is calm.” “The remains of the deceased officer have been evacuated to 7 Division Medical Services and Hospital. “Investigation into the case has since been instituted to determine the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .