A socio-political group, Anambra Ekunie, has cautioned Governor Willie Obiano against succumbing to the temptation of using traditional rulers in Anambra State to endorse zoning of the governorship position for the 2021 poll. It disclosed that the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has been engaging traditional rulers to sign resolutions mandating all political parties in the state to choose their gubernatorial candidates from Anambra South Senatorial District. The group said APGA had concluded arrangements to ensure that Obiano’s successor came from Anambra South, adding that the attempt to use traditional rulers to pursue the zoning principle ran contrary to the monarchs’ oath of office. In a statement by its President General, Dr. Ifeanyi Achusi, it urged Obiano to restrain the APGA chieftain promoting the agenda, stressing that the party leaders have been practically threatening disposition of traditional rulers who failed to support APGA’s zoning arrangement. While lamenting that  Commissioner for Local Government, Chieftaincy and Community Affairs and Special Adviser to the governor on Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, have been mandated to convince the traditional rulers, the group said the move was capable of breaching social harmony in the state. It, therefore, reminded Governor Obiano that his administration would set a dangerous precedence if the planned meeting between the monarchs and the government went ahead to coerce them into endorsing the resolution. Anambra Ekunie argued that rotation of the governorship position had always existed, adding that no attempt should be made to undermine democratic principles in next year’s governorship election. “Recall that traditional rulers from Anambra North had on March 22, 2020, declared their opposition to zoning like their Anambra Central counterparts.
“So, the recant by some monarchs from the North is the state government’s making, because it the publications purporting that the traditional rulers have abandoned their disapproval for zoning. “Some of them have been critisised and threatened with loss of their certificate of recognition and staff of office if they do not back down. We are in touch with them and they are bitter about what is happening.” Anambra Ekunie therefore urged Governor Obiano to restrain APGA and those promoting discord and clannish division in the state over the zoning arrangement to desist.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .