 Alhaji Sule Lamido  PHOTO:Getty Images  The Governor of Bauchi State Bala Muhammed who spoke on behalf of the chairman of the PDP Governors Forum chairman Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State said the party cannot afford to lose the wisdom of Sule Lamido at this point when they are strategising for the 2023 presidential election. Governor Muhammed in the company of all leaders of PDP in Bauchi state spoke in Baimaina the country home of the former Governor during a Salah Homage. This was coming against the backdrop of a recent publication tagged unease in PDP over anti-party allegations where the North-West Zonal leadership was alleged to have accused the former Governor of being the brain behind the crises in the party in Jigawa. On account of that the Bauchi Governor indicated that the Jigawa chapter of PDP is going to have a caretaker committee, “Our colleagues the PDP Governors say I should come and assure him that his integrity, pedigree and his respect is intact. We cherish him, we adore him, he is the face of PDP and the face of democracy.
He described Lamido as a Father in the PDP political Family. He said Lamido is PDP and PDP us Lamido.1 “We just came to appease our leader who we found that there are some tendencies that will make him unhappy.
He added that all those opposing Lamido were his boys adding that the Party acknowledges him as a national leader of great repute. “What we are doing is planning for 2023 because without him in the PDP it is not only Jigawa that will suffer but the entire country so w1e discussed so many issues.
“I am paying a visit or a courtesy call like paying a visit to a parent. So we came to socialise, discuss the issues at the national and State levels and took some advises and we heard some of the issues happening in Jigawa because they are of interest to us.
“Anything that happens to Jigawa Happens to Bauchi. “We are here on a normal courtesy call on our leader, a national leader of the Peoples Democratic Party and one of the pillars of democracy in Nigeria.
“I am here to celebrate with him the Eid-El-Fitr because it is our tradition of the most respected prophet that you pay courtesy call and visitation at the end of every Ramadan and I carried the entire stakeholders of Bauchibto Jigawa.” He said though they know they don’t have a government in Jigawa but they know they have somebody more than a Government.
He said Lamido cannot be intimidated or maligned or insulted by anybody while they are there, “and so we are giving him our assurances on behalf of the PDP Governors forum chaired by the Governor of Sokoto State Aminu Tambuwal that we have so much respect for him that he should not be bordered that whatever is happening is part of politics that nobody will diminish or demean him in this party because doing that will amount to creating some self-destruction.
“I came to do that in behalf of the party. It is normal because in Bauchi we respect him.” He explained that the country and Jigawa look up to him as a leader saying that definitely it is humiliating and so we came in solidarity.
He said there is no room for a vacuum and since the tenure of the leaders of the party is elapsing they came to ensure something must be in place even if it is not pleasant to him.
“His integrity his name are all intact in the PDP  family not only in Jigawa but throughout the country.” Sule Lamido on his part said whatever the party is doing is for the future of the younger generation
“It is all about your future, not me I am done with it and your future God has been kind to me. You make it or you mar it.
He said God has done everything for him in his own time.
On whether he was expecting any change he said it is all about the younger generations, their future. “God my creator has been so kind to me. At my age now what do I want.
The nation has been so kind to me it gave me the space to grow. Our leaders have been good I thank God for what he has used me to do in my life.
“Now it is up to you the younger generation to carry on the battle.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .