Kidnappers on Monday night abducted a female on-air presenter, Chinenye Iwuoha, working with the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Pacesetter FM, Umuahia, Abia State capital. It was gathered that the incident occurred near Amakanma Housing Estate in Umuahia South Local Government Area of the state at about 7:00p.m. when she was going home after the close of the day’s work. Some eyewitnesses said the gunmen operating in a motorcycle and Toyota Sienna space bus had trailed the Hilux van in which the victim and the station’s General Manager, Uche Ndukwu, were heading home with after her shift. Before her abduction, the hoodlums reportedly shot the company’s driver, one Kingsley Onyeokuche, before speeding off with their captive, perhaps to stop him from giving a hot chase after them. According to a source, “when the gunmen double-crossed the Hilux van, they were shouting who is the GM? Before they shot the driver in the stomach and whisked Iwuoha away in their SUV.” The gunmen, it was gathered, also made away with valuables belonging to the GM and those of other workers including laptops. The driver is reported to be in critical condition after he was rushed to the hospital and underwent surgery to remove the bullet that was lodged in his stomach. It was further gathered that the kidnappers have made contact with the station and demanded N20 million ransom for the lady. The state’s Commissioner of Police, Janet Agbede, told newsmen in a telephone interview that the police were yet to receive any official report of the abduction. Meanwhile, unknown gunmen have abducted a banker, Mr. Ochogga Agbese in Agila, Ado local government area of Benue State. It was gathered that the incident occurred on Sunday at about 7:00p.m. while the victim was in his house. The victim is an employee of a new generation bank in Niger State and was said to be back home in Ado due to the lock down before his adduction. The acting chairman of Ado local government area, Abel Onazi, who confirmed the incident to newsmen, said kidnappings in the area have being on the increase. As at press time yesterday, the gunmen were yet to established contact with the family of the victim. Also, the police spokesperson in the state, Kate Sewuese Anene, said she was yet to get the report. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .