 Seyi Makinde  Oyo State House of Assembly yesterday passed a vote of confidence on Governor Seyi Makinde and his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan. It also debunked the rumoured face-off between the executive and the legislature. This followed a motion moved at the plenary session by the lawmaker representing Lagelu State Constituency, Olajide Akintunde. The motion, therefore, urged journalists attached to the House to always be fair and unbiased in their reportage. In his contribution, Muhammed Fadeyi, who is the Deputy Speaker, urged journalists to always be factual and do much investigation on news before publishing. Speaking on the vote of confidence, the House Minority Leader, Asimiyu Alarape,  emphasised that all the lawmakers must make public their support for the Makinde-led government irrespective of political leanings. Adopting the motion, the House Speaker, Adebo Ogundoyin, lauded the efforts of the Assembly correspondents in making the House activities known to public, urging them to be factual in their reports. He, however, debunked a report making the rounds that there was a time a political leader gathered lawmakers in a hotel with clandestine meeting to impeach the governor or his deputy. In another development, chieftain and former senatorial candidate for Lagos West in 2015 election under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Segun Adewale, has raised the alarm over plot to impose new party officials without any election. Adewale had written to the National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus, warning that the party leaders must immediately wade in and stop those who want to illegally impose officials into the vacant positions in the state to avert another crisis in the state. He accused some forces of trying to derail the State Chairman, Deji Doherty and pushing him to foist Lagos Mainland Chairman and senatorial candidate for Lagos West on the party without regard to the constitutional requirements. Adewale said the constitution was clear over this matter because it was the same scenario that played out that led to Doherty’s emergence as the state chairman, citing Section 47 (6) of the constitution, which demanded for an election for replacement for peace to reign. He said that Doherty should remember that it was faithful members of the party that fought gallantly risking their lives against imposition to ensure that an election was conducted, which made him to emerge as the state chairman. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .