Drake’s Grand Vividus matress | Stuff We all want to live the life of the rich and famous no doubt but Drake took it to the next level with the Grand Vividus mattress that costs a whopping $390,000. That could buy a house with enough change to spare! The mattress is by Swedish manufacturer Hästens and artist and designer Ferris Rafauli. Made famous by the Canadian rapper after Architectural Digest magazine featured his 50,000 square-foot mansion in Toronto, the mattress is one of a kind. The hand-made masterpiece was easily the most astonishing amenity in Drake’s mansion as it isn’t your run of the mill mattress. The Grand Vividus is the recently launched result of a collaboration between Swedish mattress-maker Hästens and artist and designer Ferris Rafauli. The first thing that draws your attention to it is the color (black), but then you notice other interesting elements, like the golden brass highlights and shagreen leather corners. Its specs are just as impressive as its look: it reportedly weighs half a ton, is made by hand and costs a whopping $390,000. The Grand Vividus Mattress So what makes Drake’s mattress of choice so expensive? Well, the main element is apparently the amount of horse hair used in the manufacturing process, double that of Hästens’ second-most-expensive mattress, the Vividus Classic ($190,000). But it’s not just about the horse hair, the Grand Vividus has considerably more springs, which reportedly enhance the feeling of floating when lying on the mattress, it takes mattress experts twice as long to make by hand (600 hours, compared to 300 for a Vividus Classic), and only 12 of them are made each year, so the exclusivity bumps up the price quite a bit. It is gathered that Drake’s Grand Vividus was the first ever to leave the Hästens factory, but the Swedish manufacturer has already completed nine more, which have already been paid for in advance. This was only the original run though, the Swedish manufacturer plans to make 12 Grand Vividus mattresses a year moving forward. Speaking about the expensive matters Linus Adolfsson who runs the Hästens Sleep Spa and the three Hästens stores in Los Angeles says: “In Sweden, sleeping isn’t just about sleeping, it’s about self-care,” the entrepreneur told VICE’s Noisey. “Your mattress should be the most important piece of furniture in your home. In Sweden, if your couch costs more than your mattress, people won’t understand. We have a completely different attitude to sleeping.” “I didn’t come from a wealthy family, but my mattress cost more than my family’s car,” Adolfson added. “My parents knew it was important to give me the best sleep possible.” If one thing is clear, it is that the Grand Vividus is for the super-wealthy but with Drake’s networth placed above $150 million, he can easily afford this luxury.