The Information Officer of Bassa Council of Plateau State, Mr. I. O. Bassa Dapar, has confirmed that five people were shot dead by unknown gunmen who attacked a fast-food joint in Miango community in the council late on Thursday night. According to him, the victims were eating at the canteen in Nzharuvo Miango when the gunmen attacked them, killing all the customers including the shop owner, Miss Asabe Samuel, and a school teacher, identified as Mr. Gideon Tunku. Chairman of Miango Youth Development Association, Nuhu Nkali, who also confirmed the killings, yesterday, said the incident happened on Thursday night, saying: “We just lost five of our people in a fresh attack. The victims were killed at a food shop in Nzharuvo Miango around 9:50 pm on Thursday. The shop is just along the road about 18 kilometres to Jos. “The victims just went there to eat when the gunmen came and shot all of them dead, including Asabe, Tunku, school teacher, Bala Adi Joro, Audu Amadu Mi and Shedrack Joshua.” He said the incident had been reported to the security agents who were already interrogating 10 persons suspected to have carried out the dastardly attack, noting: “When the attack took place, we informed the security personnel at their duty post not more than one kilometre from the scene of the incident. “A few hours later, around 1:18 am a vehicle carrying 10 young men was intercepted by the vigilante at Jebu Bassa community. The vehicle made some suspicious turns before vigilantes blocked it and when they were interrogated, they claimed to be returning to Kaduna after supplying tomatoes in Shendam. But when one of them was interviewed separately, he said a different thing and claimed to be coming from Faringada Market in Jos. “Right now, they are at the Police station in Bassa, because they are suspected to be the ones who carried out the attacks in our community and were making their escape when they were caught.” Spokesman for state Police Command, Ubah Gabriel Ogaba, said investigation into the matter was ongoing at the time of filing this report. Bassa Council, the host of the 3 Amoured Division of the Nigerian Army, has become an epicentre of crises in the state of recent. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .