 Osagie Ize-Iyamu  The buildup to the September 19, 2020 gubernatorial poll in Edo State has continued to throw up interesting developments, which shows that the exercise would expose motley of novelties.
   
Part of the surprises on the way is that already, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has hinted at the possibilities of virtual primaries and electronic balloting in subsequent elections in the country.
   
INEC´s position seems to have been predicated by the devastating effects of the highly dreaded coronavirus, also known as, COVID-19 pandemic. A crucial part of the containment measures against the pandemic is social distancing. This development therefore hits at the core of elections, which happen to be a crowd event.
   
So new solutions have to be found to marry electoral credibility with public safety. And this is one area where the challenges of conducting the forthcoming governorship poll in Edo State would witness a variety of approaches that could end up as template for other elections.  Validating Virtual Primaries
IN its bold efforts to confront the challenges thrown up by the containment measures against the pandemic, INEC´s stance on virtual primaries contrasts with the dictates of the governing political party in Edo State.
 
While a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, insists on direct primary, the other faction led by the state chairman, Anselm Ojezua, has denied that the national leadership of the party has power to decree such a candidate selection model on the state.
   
There is no doubt that electronic voting, which is the central operating system of virtual primaries, supports direct primary, the myriad challenges posed by COVD-19, show that indirect option would be less expansive and entail a manageable crowd. Most APC faithful believe that Oshiomhole´s resolve to use some pranks against the incumbent fueled the direct primary option prescribed by the National Working Committee (NWC).
   
Dr. Kayode Ajulo, a lawyer and former National Secretary of Labour Party (LP), one of the parties that supported Oshiomhole in his 2007 governorship contest, said he supports and approves of virtual voting for primary election in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. Ajulo however observed: “This can validly be achieved by adopting a direct primary, which do not expressly mandate or restrict procedures to a certain way…  Cloudy Consensus Mirror
THE initial recriminations that attended the purported selection of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu as the consensus candidate of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), favoured by Oshiomhole, as well as the reservation of some notable aspirants that were said to have stepped down for the candidate in Abuja, shows that indirect primary is dead on arrival.
 
Recalling the events that trailed the 2007 governorship election, the Edo State chairman of APC, Ojezua, said experience has shown that Edo people have zero tolerance to civilian dictatorship and impunity. He said the attempt to introduce the indirect primary method through the backdoor would not fly for a number reasons, stressing that there is no way the national chairman should sit in judgment on his matter, despite his suspension.  A member of the defunct merger committee that midwifed APC, Mr. Osita Okechukwu, expressed doubts that Ize-Iyamu fulfilled the conditions precedent in the process leading to the granting of waiver.
   
Okechukwu stated:  “To start with, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is my personal friend, but going by Article 31 (2) of our great party, the APC Constitution, to the best of my knowledge the National Executive Committee neither held even virtual nor real meeting, which granted approval for waiver to the National Working Committee.     
 
“Methinks as well that the waiver is not even in the best interest of members of Edo People’s Movement, parading eminent personalities like Chris Ogienwonyi, His Excellency Pius Odubu among others, or the entire membership of Edo State APC. In the absence of approval from the National Executive Committee what reverberated is nothing, but Comrade Adams Oshiomhole’s culture of impunity and narcissism.”
 
In the light of the foregoing, it appears Ize-Iyamu is being used as a pawn in game of intrigues by the national chairman against Obaseki´s determined effort to clinch his second term ticket against his dictates.Speaking when he obtained his nomination form to contest the primary election, Ize-Iyamu said he was committed to delivering good governance in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .