 (FILES) In this file photo taken on April 21, 2020 a US flag  flies at half-mast in front of the Skyline of Manhattan of New York City seen from Weehawken, New Jersey. – US President Donald Trump tweeted on May 21, 2020 that he would order US flags lowered to half-staff for three days in honor of Americans who have died from the novel coronavirus. (Photo by Johannes EISELE / AFP)  The announcement came as the US COVID-19 death toll approaches the 100,000 marks, and follows calls by Democrats to lower the flag when it reaches that grim milestone. “I will be lowering the flags on all Federal Buildings and National Monuments to half-staff over the next three days in memory of the Americans we have lost to the CoronaVirus,” Trump tweeted. The Republican president added that flags would remain at half-staff on Monday for the country’s Memorial Day, honouring those who have died while serving in the US military. While US daily death tolls are no longer on a steady incline, the losses are still mounting, with the total count in the US above 94,500 — by far the nation with the most deaths in the President Donald Trump on Thursday ordered US flags to be lowered to half-staff for three days in honour of Americans who have died from coronavirus. The announcement came as the US COVID-19 death toll approaches the 100,000 marks, and follows calls by Democrats to lower the flag when it reaches that grim milestone. “I will be lowering the flags on all Federal Buildings and National Monuments to half-staff over the next three days in memory of the Americans we have lost to the CoronaVirus,” Trump tweeted. The Republican president added that flags would remain at half-staff on Monday for the country’s Memorial Day, honouring those who have died while serving in the US military. While US daily death tolls are no longer on a steady incline, the losses are still mounting, with the total count in the US above 94,500 — by far the nation with the most deaths in the world. The Memorial Day weekend will likely coincide with the country reaching 100,000 COVID-19 deaths. Earlier in the day, top Democrats said flying the flags at half-staff upon reaching the 100,000 mark would reflect a “national expression of grief.” “Our hearts are broken over this great loss,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer wrote in a letter to the president. The pair said it would be fitting to pay respects to victims of the crisis while honouring the nation’s military heroes. The United States has averaged nearly 1,300 coronavirus deaths per day this week. mlm-bfm/sst world. The Memorial Day weekend will likely coincide with the country reaching 100,000 COVID-19 deaths. Earlier in the day, top Democrats said flying the flags at half-staff upon reaching the 100,000 marks would reflect a “national expression of grief.” “Our hearts are broken over this great loss,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer wrote in a letter to the president. The pair said it would be fitting to pay respects to victims of the crisis while honouring the nation’s military heroes. The United States has averaged nearly 1,300 coronavirus deaths per day this week. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .