 An okada accident scene<br />  The victim, in his late 20s, according to reports, hailed from one the northern states of the country, and had lived in Owerri with his relatives for more than five years. Some eyewitnesses who spoke to The Guardian at the scene of the incident, said the deceased was riding with one hand while using the other hand to answer call when he met his sudden death. He was said to have hit a bump and lost control of the bike, which resulted in him running into the vehicle that was coming from behind. The body was later evacuated by the police from the scene after the driver had ran to them for safety to avoid being lynched. But for the timely intervention of security personnel, the vehicle was about to be set ablaze by the deceased colleagues. This caused heavy gridlock at the junction until respite returned to the area. As at the time of filing this report, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, ASP Orlando Ikeokwu, was yet to react to the incident. Meanwhile, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), says it has turned back 437 vehicles from Ogun and Lagos states’ boundaries within two days while enforcing the Federal Government’s ban on interstate movements. Samuel Obayemi, FRSC Zonal Commanding Officer in charge of the two states, made this known to newsmen in Lagos yesterday. Obayemi, an Assistant Corps Marshal, said that the FRSC operatives turned back 45 vehicles at Lagos boundaries and 190 vehicles at Ogun boundaries on Monday, the first day of the lockdown ease. According to him, the corps turned back 41 vehicles at Lagos borders and 161 vehicles at Ogun borders on the second day of the lockdown ease. “FRSC operatives turned back a total of 437 vehicles to their originating places at both Ogun and Lagos borders in two days. I don’t know why people willingly and deliberately flout orders put in place for their safety? “We will continue to do our jobs. No interstate movement except for essential services or commodities. People should stay in their state,” Obayemi said. The FRSC boss said that the zone recorded two accidents on Monday where 10 persons were injured. He said that the zone recorded only one accident on Tuesday, saying that four persons sustained injuries. According to him, the corps is equally educating the transport unions’ park officials and passengers on the need to adhere strictly to the number of passengers they are to carry. He said FRSC officers were placing emphasis on the need to maintain social distance and wearing of facemasks. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .