• Sacked commissioner tests positive for COVID-19
• Nobody died of pandemic in Yobe, says Buni Kano State’s demand of N15 billion from the Federal Government to manage the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) may not materialise after all, because of her inability to justify the demand. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje had consistently cried out for financial support to the tune of N15 billion from President Muhammadu Buhari to muzzle human, material and technical strength required to curtail the pandemic. Special Adviser to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, insisted that special support to states battling the pandemic was considered based on initial but satisfied efforts the states put in place. The presidential spokesman, who featured on Wazobia FM, Kano, morning show ‘As E Dey Hot’ via telephone, posited that the Buhari-led government was ready to strengthen any state that worked hard to halt the spread with technical capacity. However, Ganduje had cited proportional similarities Kano shared with Lagos, such as population, commercial base and heterogeneity as major reasons the Federal Government should extend equal support to Kano. But Adesina explained that Lagos earned government’s N10 billion intervention because of her massive and evidence-based work to curtail the spread of the virus. Kano’s active cases as at Thursday, May 7, 2020 was 427, including 13 deaths and six discharges. However, former Commissioner for Works in the state, Magaji Mua’zu, has tested positive for the virus. Mua’zu, an engineer, confirmed his status yesterday on his social media page where he announced his relocation to one of the state’s isolation facilities. “This morning, my test came out from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). I have been confirmed COVID-19 positive, and I have been moved to one of the state’s facilities. Pray for us,” he stated. Ganduje sacked him for celebrating the death of Buhari’s late Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari, on his social media page. Meanwhile, Yobe State government has faulted the reported death of about 100 persons due to COVID-19-related ailments. Governor Mai Mala Buni, in a statement made available to The Guardian in Abuja, declared that no such case was recorded. Buni, who spoke through his Director General Press and Media Affairs, Mamman Mohammed, recalled that Yobe was the first state in Nigeria to voluntarily submit a suspected case of COVID-19 for test, which turned out negative. The governor, however, admitted that Yobe recorded its first case on Thursday, April 30, 2020. “Our attention has been drawn to an online report alleging COVID-19-related deaths in Yobe. The report also claimed that Governor Buni was in Abuja while his people were dying. “We had expected the publishers to cross-check their facts and reflect our position to balance the story. “The state had, despite her zero case, constituted a COVID-19 committee, established three isolation centres equipped with ventilators and other necessary tools.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .