 Seyi Makinde  Oyo State has recorded 19 more confirmed cases of COVID-19 while two more patients have been discharged.This was disclosed yesterday by Governor Seyi Makinde in his twitter handle. Makinde said: “Two confirmed COVID-19 patients have received their second negative test results and have been discharged. This brings the number of discharged cases in Oyo State to 48. “Also, the COVID-19 confirmation tests for 19 suspected cases came back positive. Fifteen are from iSON Xperiences in Ibadan South West Local Council, two from Ido Local Council and one from Ibadan South East Local Council. So, the total number of confirmed cases in Oyo State is 162. Meanwhile, Oyo State government has refuted a statement circulating that the government has lifted ban on public gatherings. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Mr. Jide Ajani, in a statement made available to journalists yesterday in Ibadan, said: “There is a fake press statement presently in circulation, referencing some Executive Orders allegedly issued by the Executive Governor of Oyo State, His Excellency, Seyi Makinde. “The individual who signed the statement is one Adeniran Adenuga, who assumed the title of ‘Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Governor. This fake news is not from Governor Makinde’s Media Office and the so-called Executive Orders are false in all materials particular. “Being a member of Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force, I can confirm that no such decisions have been taken.
  “Therefore, as of today (Thursday), there is no lifting of ban on public gatherings – including churches and mosques.
  “Please, treat the statement as fake news and another handiwork of enemies of the state.
  “Prior to this latest evil scheme, the Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force’s daily update flyer had been cloned and used to post incorrect data.
  “On another occasion, they had posted pictures on social media depicting outbreak of violence in Oyo State when the park management system was kick-started.
  “Individuals who can go to this extreme extent can do anything. Members of the public are advised to ignore the statement.” In another development, the efforts of the Oyo State government in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic got a boost yesterday with N10 million donation from a group. The group, in a statement signed by the Aagbaakin Bashorun of Ibadanland, Asiwaju Olumide Osunsina, said that the donation was made to assist the government to effectively curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the state. Osunsina, who maintained that the broad and timely measures taken by the Oyo State Government were highly commendable and worthy of support as they have helped in alleviating and containing the spread of the deadly virus, particularly commended the governor for his resilience in catering for the wellbeing of the people despite the economic crunch occasioned by the pandemic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .