The Ebonyi State Government has donated items and cash to the state Council of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) to cushion the effect of coronavirus. Delivering the palliatives at the Sam Egwu Press Centre, Abakaliki, Chairman of the State COVID-19 Palliatives Sub- Committee and Speaker, House of Assembly, Francis Ogbonnaya Nwifuru, noted that the gesture was in recognition of the role of journalists as partners in the fight against coronavirus in Ebonyi and beyond. He noted that media practitioners have been in the forefront of sensitisation and dissemination of information on the virus, adding that the palliatives would assist them to discharge their duties especially now the world needed more of their services. Responding, State Chairman of NUJ, Comrade Tony Nwizi commended the state government for acknowledging the important role journalists play in the state, especially in the fight against coronavirus pandemic and canvassed greater synergy and a higher sense of belonging. He admonished journalists to always double-check their facts before reporting noting that the palliatives would add value to the newsmen. In a similar vein, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Commission in collaboration with the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) has begun distribution of hygiene materials to displaced populations in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. The beneficiaries, who are in the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camps of Wasa, Takushara and Waru communities, were identified for the joint intervention, which covered hygiene, water and sanitation. Commissioner for Social Affairs and Gender, Mrs. Siga Fatima Jagne, stressed the critical role of health education and promotion of hygiene in raising awareness towards reducing the spread of COVID-19, saying no fewer than 3,000 households were reached through direct communication and pledged continuous support for the region’s vulnerable persons. Meanwhile, Kougar Solutions and Allied Services in partnership with Hikvision have supported the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) administration with a thermal and artificial intelligence machine to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in the territory. Group Managing Director of Kougar Solutions and Allied Services, Rony Melhem, presented the machine to the FCT Minister of State, Dr. Ramatu Tiijani Aliyu in Abuja yesterday, explaining that the thermal and facial recognition features that comes with the machine captures the facial images of patients as well as detects those not wearing facial masks and their temperature. Responding, Aliyu commended the firm for donating the artificial intelligence system to assist the administration to contain the spread of the virus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .