 Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe state; has said that ‘test landing’ of multi-billion naira Damaturu International Cargo Airport is slated for<br />PHOTO:Twitter  It cost the State Government N11.33 billion to complete the project that commenced in 2017. Buni disclosed this on Tuesday while hosting the Chief of Air Staff, Sadiq Abubakar to Sallah homage in Damaturu, the state capital.
His words: “I’ll keep to all the promises made to the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), by providing its staff quarters, office accommodation and all other logistics for them to fully settle down in Damaturu. “The Cargo Airport will be test landed on May 29 and we are going to provide NAF staff quarters; as we promised.” The Governor noted that the presence of Air force will permanently flush out all forms of insurgency and criminality in the state. While lamenting decade long terrorists’ activities, he said: “This is quite assuring and a clear sign that the madness called insurgency is
coming to an end very soon.” Abubakar was very much excited that air surveillance and counter-insurgency operations against Boko Haram terrorists; will immediately commence from Damaturu, the state capital. On completion of Cargo Airport; he said: “I am very much excited that Governor Buni; has been supportive of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) in counter-insurgency and terrorism operations in the forest.” “He has provided a land area where we are putting certain facilities that would add a lot of value to what we are doing. I am also confident with what we have.” He noted that it’s going to be much easier for the air force to respond to any threats within Yobe. “This is rather than going to Maiduguri Air Force Base and coming back to launch aerial operations in Sambisa Forest and Lake Chad region,”
he said. Continued; “With the completion of international cargo airport; we can now operate from Damaturu which is very exciting for us indeed and to our comrade that are fighting on the land as well.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .