No matter how bad or worse the COVID-19 pandemic may get in the coming days, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said nothing would make it alter the September 19 and October 10, 2020 dates for the gubernatorial polls scheduled for Edo and Ondo States.
 
INEC said it is committed to conducting the forthcoming governorship polls without endangering the health and wellbeing of the stakeholders. When the INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, disclosed the stance of the commission, little did he know how the revelation had gone to quicken the intra-party contestations, especially in the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) in the two states.
   
In its meeting of Tuesday, May 19, 2020, INEC chewed on the policy framework, which its said would guide its operations, activities and engagements with critical stakeholders in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the electoral process in Nigeria.  Ondo: Controversial Operation Stop Aketi
ON paper, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Sunshine State has no factions. But in terms of cleavages, interests and political orientation, there are as many Hamlets as there are targets.
   
The major bone of contention within the Ondo APC seems to be how Governor Akeredolu could be stopped from netting the party’s ticket to seek another four-year mandate.
 
In anticipation of the primary, some political actors opposed to Akeredolu came together under the aegis of Unity Forum with a view to selecting a consensus choice to confront the incumbent.
 
But no sooner had the group settled for Chief Olusola Oke than other aspirants kicked against the process, arguing that it was not proper for few individuals to impose a candidate without the input of other members of the coalition.  Edo: Obaseki Versus Baba And Son
IN Edo State also, despite the purported endorsement of the incumbent governor by President Buhari, rival aspirants have continued to run round in circles in a bid to prune the numbers of challengers for the APC ticket.
 
Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu`s recent bestowal of a waiver to contest the primary election has underscored the claims in some circles that he is the adopted son of the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .