We ’ll respond in due course, says govt The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State has demanded explanation from the state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, on the status of the state Governor’s Lodge in Abuja. The party said there was credible evidence that the property, sitting on 2,000sqm on T.Y. Danjuma, Asokoro, Abuja, had been sold, adding that the governor must explain to Ekiti people why the building was demolished and a new structure being built on the land. In a statement yesterday by Secretary, Caretaker Committee of the PDP in Ekiti State, Diran Odeyemi, there was allegation that Governor Fayemi got the state government to buy a property belonging to him in Abuja to be converted to a new Governor’s Lodge after selling the one in Asokoro, Abuja. The PDP said that the Governor Fayemi-led All Progressives Congress (APC) government in Ekiti State would be living to its real identity as a “devourer of Ekiti heritage” if it turned out that the massive edifice was sold with no one in the state knowing about it until now. The party said: “As of today, the edifice  is no longer there. It has been demolished and a new structure is being built on the land. “At the site, no signpost stating the owner of the new structure, the contractor and consultant as it should be if a new structure is being built by the state government. “Also, assuming but not conceding that the new structure with 15ft bunker is being built by the state government, what is the justification for pulling down the old structure and building a new one at this time? At what time did the former structure become dilapidated to warrant total demolition to pave way for a new one? Meanwhile, reacting to the allegation on behalf of the state government, the state’s Commissioner for Works, Mr. Shola Adebayo, said the government would give appropriate response to the allegation  in due course. “We heard about the allegation from the PDP and I don’t think we have any reason to rush in replying because there is nothing like fraud as regards the Abuja property. We will respond very soon,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .