….Recover exhibits. Operatives of the Marine Division of the Rivers State Police  Command has arrested 17 sea pirates who allegedly attacked  men of the Special Protection Unit (SPU) Base 5, at  Egelegele River in Degema Local Government Area of the State last week. The State Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni ,while confirming the arrest in a statement yesterday, said the hoodlums were nabbed during  follow ups on the dastardly act, where the security officers  lost their arms and ammunition. Omoni said, “In a follow up on the attack of the Men of the Special Protection Unit (SPU) Base 5, Benin that  were attacked by Sea Pirates on 24/5/2020 at Egelegele River in Degema LGA”. ” the operatives in a well coordinated Operation late last night arrested one Destiny Ubani ‘m’ and 16 others who allegedly carried out the dastardly act, where the men lost their Arms and Ammunition”. Recall that the three coastal  local Councils of the State, Asari Toru, Akuku Toru, Degema and other Coastal Communities in the State  have been subjected into series of attacks  by rampaging Sea Pirates terrorizing the area. The residents have cried out and called for beef up of security men on the waterways. Speaking further, Omoni disclosed that the suspects are currently helping the police and making useful confessions, adding that efforts  have been intensified to arrest the remnants of the criminal gang responsible for the attacks on passengers   along the Degema, Asari Toru and Akuku Toru Waterways. The police spokesman added, “In the wake of the arrest, the following Exhibits were recovered; two AK 47 Magazines, different charms/Ammulets, gas Cylinder, assorted handsets and cash of N50,000.00 as well as two speed boats used in the attack” Omoni said, the  State Commissioner of Police, Joseph  Mukan is  strongly appealing to the residents of the three local Councils and indeed other Coastal Communities to increase their security consciousness and assist the Police with useful information that can lead to the arrest of the rampaging Sea Pirates terrorizing them. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .