The police in Osun State have arrested a 27-year-old man, Fatai Gbodorogun, for allegedly defiling a 10-year-old girl in the state. The victim, name withheld, was reportedly abused several times in Ila Orangun community in the state by Fatai, who lives in the same neighborhood with the victim’s aunt. It was gathered that Fatai would always sneak into the victim’s house whenever her aunt was not around and have carnal knowledge of her. And was only able to summon courage to reveal to her aunt and her father that Fatai had been abusing her since last year. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mrs. Yemisi Opalola, confirmed Fatai’s arrest to our correspondent on the telephone yesterday, adding that the incident happened last year. “We have arrested the suspect and we are currently investigating him. The case happened last year but the family of the girl did not report until yesterday (Tuesday) at Ila Police Station. The Divisional Police Officer has taken action and brought the suspect to State C.I.D for further investigation,” Opalola said. Speaking with our correspondent in Osogbo, the victim’s aunt who claimed anonymity for security purpose, said: “I am the one that is taking care of Marian after her mother died some years ago. Fatai has always been having sex with my girl since last year. This is the third time he had sex with her, according to Mariam. “We reported the case at Ila Police station and the matter has been brought to the State C.I.D in Osogbo. We have also visited the police clinic in Oke-Fia, Osogbo to get the medical report and treatment for my girl.” Four days ago, a 62-year-old man, Ogungbemi David and his son, Ogungbemi Idowu, were arrested by the Osun police command for allegedly raping a 14-year-old niece. It was gathered that the victim was living with one Esther Ogungbemi, who was her father’s sister in Ilare, Obokun Local Government Area of the state. The duo of father and his son were alleged to have defiled the girl and had intercourse with her by force. It was gathered that the girl became pregnant thereafter, thus propelling her father to report to the police.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .