Edward Nino Hernandez is the world’s shortest man | Image: Guinness World Records The world’s shortest man, Edward Nino Hernandez has reclaimed his Guinness World Record title – a decade after he was first awarded the crown. Hernandez, 34, who is from Colombia 72.10 cm – around 2 feet and 4 inches tall. Guinness World Records announced on Tuesday that Hernandez had been awarded the title of the shortest living man who is mobile. The title was awarded to coincide with his 34th birthday celebrations. “After turning 34 on 10 May, Edward can now begin his new year of age with a fantastic new record title; one that he achieved with a height of 72.10 cm (2 ft 4.3938 in) tall.” Guinness World Records said in a statement. The certificate of the world’s shortest man was awarded to Hernandez in his hometown of Bogota before quarantine and social distancing guidelines were imposed. His family and his Orthopedist were by his side during the ceremony. Hernandez says size and height don’t matter: “I use my smile to conquer the world! I always share my big smile with everyone; that’s my charm. I can achieve everything I propose to myself. Everything is possible. Size and height don’t matter. I want people to meet who I truly am, small in size, big in heart!” Hernandez suffers from severe hypothyroidism, a condition which stunts the growth and means bone cartilage does not grow as it should do. Mr Hernandez was originally crowned the world’s shortest living man at the age of 23 in 2010 after officials measured his height as 70.21cm. Until then, he and his family lived in relative obscurity. He had been angry and depressed as a child when he didn’t grow as other children or siblings did. Hernandez was astonishingly only diagnosed with severe hyperthyroidism in his early 20s, which his mother claims is because doctors lost interest in recording her son’s height throughout childhood. Edward Nino Hernandez | Image: Guinness World Records In 2010, however, he became an overnight superstar and bounced into the limelight when the Guinness World Records came knocking and made him the record-holder. His glory was short-lived, however, and just six months later the title passed to 18-year-old Khagendra Thapa Magar, who measured 67.08cm. The record next went to Chandra Bahadur Dangi, who was a minuscule 54.6cm tall. Following Mr Dangi’s death in 2015 the title returned to Mr Magar. At the same time, officials decided to split the record into those who could walk unaided and those who needed assistance. Edward Nino Hernandez regained his record-holder status in January this year as the world’s shortest living mobile man after his predecessor passed away. The shortest living non-mobile man is Junrey Balawing, from the Philippines. He is just 59.93cm tall – or 1ft 11.5in – and is unable to walk or stand unaided because of poor bone formation. The tallest living man in the world is Turkey’s Sultan Kösen, who measures 251 cm, or around 8ft 3in. It means he is nearly three-and-a-half times the height of Mr Hernandez. 