Many businesses in Lagos, Ogun and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja partially reopened this week after five weeks of lockdown and stay-at-home directive in an effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. However, the battle is still raging and the war far from over according to the WHO. Hence, the reopening of offices, businesses and intra-state movements, more than ever, demand extreme caution and collective responsibility.
 
President Muhammadu Buhari in his third national address on COVID-19 had announced the gradual easing of lockdown and attendant economic restart in major cities, except Kano State. The decision is a difficult one. Undoubtedly, a relaxed lockdown favours many Nigerians who are either cash-strapped, stuck and hungry, or still living in self-delusion of the lurking danger in town. For the former group than latter, an economy and means of livelihood on lockdown without any serious palliative measures will kill faster than any public health emergency. 
 
But on the flip side and in opposition of hurried reopening are a group led by health professionals. They are worried by the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in communities, uptick on COVID-19 dashboard, poor testing capability, overwhelmed National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and overstretched isolation centres in places like Lagos. If the number of positive cases could spike to 2400 and 85-plus deaths during lockdown, what new figures will attend the reopening of the economy in densely congested cities where many deadly yet asymptomatic positive cases, freely go about their businesses?  There should be good awareness on proper usage, disposal and reusability. Indeed, free and accessible face masks for all will be far cheaper and most sensible than a couple of ventilator machines that have no guarantee of saving anyone.
 
We all, including the doubting Thomases and those living in self-denial, should remember that we have on our hand a pandemic with higher likelihood of community transmission. Coronavirus kills an average of 5000 people every 24 hours – the majority from countries with the best of healthcare services. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has warned that the hasty lifting of the lockdown could be most disastrous. And it is not far-fetched. Germany and Ghana lately lifted their lockdowns and the rate of new infections spiked. Nigeria, with a population of 200 million people, has not done as many coronavirus tests as Germany and Ghana to be able to measure how well or badly we are doing in and out of lockdown. May we not find out the hard way!
 
Therefore, the rule of enlightened self-interest and protection should apply to all: wear face mask, maintain personal hygiene, physical distancing, and get treated for ailments. These are unusual times and safety comes first to strike a balance between economic survival and sustainable public health. Common sense on hygiene and the law of self-preservation already commend the decision on compulsory wearing of face masks in public. We should never forget: life is infinite in its possibilities while death is final in its finality. The policy on face mask is spot-on and deserves acceptance by all to secure lives. We need to survive COVID-19 first before we can enjoy life after it! To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .