Another nabbed for alleged rape, attempted murder of teenage girl in Ogun The Jigawa State police command has arrested a 30-year-old man, Alasan Audu, for allegedly raping his wife to death days after she denied him sex for 20 days after their wedding. Audu reportedly raped 17-year old Hansa’u to death on April 21, at Kankarelu village in Ringim Local Government Area, Jigiwa State. Spokesman of the command, SP Abdu Jinjiri, who confirmed the incident last Thursday said the teenage wife had another person she had in mind but her parents betrothed her to Audu who she never wanted to get married to. However, she was forced to get married to Audu and when he wanted to have sex with her, she refused and Audu forcefully raped her to death. Audu may likely face a charge for murder, which attracts life imprisonment if he is tried and found guilty. Jinjiri said the police removed the body and took it to the hospital where it was confirmed dead by a medical doctor and deposited for autopsy report. He said after interrogation, the suspect confessed to committing the crime. Meanwhile, men of the Ogun State police command have arrested a 28-year-old man, Godday Robinson, for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl (name withheld) and attempting to murder her. The suspect, according to a statement by the command’s spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, in Abeokuta yesterday was arrested on Thursday, April 24, following a report received by the policemen attached to Agbara area command that a young lady was lying unconscious in a ten feet deep pit in a nearby bush. Upon receiving the report, Oyeyemi said the Area Commander of Agbara, ACP Bolanle Muritala, detailed his men to the scene where the young lady was rescued with the help of members of the public and she was quickly taken to a hospital. Oyeyemi explained, “Having regained her consciousness, the victim explained to the police that on the day before, while she was coming from night duty which she performed in the company where she works, the suspect who has been making advances to her before, accosted her. “The suspect capitalised on the isolated nature of the area and dragged her into the bush where he forcefully raped her, dispossessed her of her Galaxy Samsung phone valued at N85,000 and then strangled her until she passed out momentarily. “Having believed that she is dead, he dragged her further into the bush and dumped her into the pit. After sometime, she came back to life and started shouting for help. On the strength of her explanation, the area Commander ACP Bolanle Muritala, gave a matching order to his detectives that the suspect must be traced and apprehended. “The detectives swung to action immediately, traced the suspect and got him arrested on the April 24. On interrogation, the suspect made a confessional statement and owned up to the commission of the crime but blamed it on the devil”, Oyeyemi added. Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police, Kenneth Ebrimson, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to state criminal investigation and intelligence department for further investigation and prosecution. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .