Oyo State Governor, Engineer Seyi Makinde, has flagged off the Ultra-modern Bus Terminal project in Iwo Road, Ibadan, to enhance the socio-economic activities of the state, as well as ease people and vehicular movement. The governor, who stated that the project signified the commencement of construction of befitting state-of-the-art modern bus terminals across the state capital, noted that when completed, it will ease the movement of travellers and give them an experience in bus transportation that is second to none in the country. In a statement, Makinde assured those whose structures were demolished that they would be compensated, and those whose shops were demolished would be considered first by government when the project is completed. The governor also appreciated worshippers at the Adogba Mosque, affected by the interchange project, for cooperating with government. Earlier, the Commissioner for Public Work and Transport, Prof. Rapheal Afonja, said the terminals to be built at Iwo Road, New Ife Road, Challenge and Ojoo areas, would be equipped with passengers’ waiting and ticketing offices, drivers’ lounge, parking facilities, shopping facilities, eateries, ATM galleries and other conveniences. Meanwhile, Makinde also commissioned the newly rehabilitated Eleyele Dam project, saying it would end the perennial flood disaster in Ibadan.The governor was also optimistic that the project would boost supply of potable water to Eleyele and other communities in the state capital. In a statement, the governor said the project is one of the many investments in flood control assets being implemented under the Ibadan Urban Flood Management Project (IUFMP), a project with funding and technical support from the World Bank.  He stated that the IUFMP project was meant to ensure that the flood experienced on August 26, 2011 does not happen again. “Also, during my electioneering, I told people that for us, continuity in government is sacrosanct. I said we would look at projects started by the previous administration, which are beneficial to the people of Oyo state and that are well structured. So, this is one example of such projects and I am glad that we provided our full support,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .