BRT PHOTO: TWITTER – METRO BRT *Reveals Lagos Bus Service Limited moved 10 million passengers in 10 months *Says boat mishaps drops by 30 percent * As Lagos issues 479028 number plates, drivers’ license in a year
Lagos State government has said that the Oshodi to Abule Egba Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) route have been completed and operation would commence on that route by July 2020. The Commissioner for Transport, Mr Frederic Oladeinde, disclosed this at the ongoing Year2020 ministerial press briefing by the Lagos government to mark one year of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He added that the state government is currently working with selected operators to ensure the roll-out of buses as soon as possible to offer relief to commuters along the Agege Motor Road and Lagos Abeokuta Expressway. He also said that the Bus terminal in Agege, Ojota, Ajah, International Airport, Yaba and Oyingbo are different levels of completion to facilitate the full rollout for the Bus Reform Initiative (BRI) of the Lagos State Government. “The Ikeja Bus Terminal is now operational and currently serving three routes – Ikeja to Obalende, CMS and TBS, Ikeja to Iyana Ipaja and Ikeja to Ikorodu The commissioner further said about 10 million passengers were moved in the last ten months by the Lagos Bus Service Limited. “The current Administration has further facilitated intermodal transportation in Lagos State as LBSL collaborates with LAGFERRY to ensure seamless movement of Lagosians through public transportation. “Eight new LAGFERRY boats were commissioned and added to the existing six making a total of fourteen fleets in operation, which has increased the daily ridership by averagely 20 percent, 70,000 to 85,000. “A 180 tons/180,000KG barge was recently unveiled for social events, it can seat 150 people. “Operationalization and Dredging of the Badore Ferry Terminal for Boat Operations.
Donation of 2,000 Lifejackets to support Riverine Communities and Boat Operators towards enhancing safety on the Inland Waterways.” The commissioner also said that the ministry initiated discussion between Lagos government and National Inland Waterways towards harmonization of Tariffs’ to Proffer Solutions to Joint Operations on the Inland Waterways. He said the ministry further established a Partnership with LAWMA for Cleaning, Clearing and Recycling of Waste that litters the Inland Waterways Shoreline thereby reducing Waste in the selected locations by 30percent. The commissioner stated that there has been a reduction in the accident/emergency situations in the Inland Waterways by 30 percent through continuous enforcements and random inspection of boats. Frederic said to ensure proper vehicle registrations within the state, the Motor Vehicle Administration Agency (MVAA) on weekly basis issues 6, 000 new number plates, 24,000 monthly and a total 288,000 in the last one year. “This administration has recently re-introduced the Temporary Vehicle Tag (TVT) to assist in providing a robust database and sharing of valuable information about all new vehicles entering the State with Law enforcement agencies, this harp on safety as well as security alertness.” The commissioner also said a new website (verify.autoreg.ng) have been created to enable Law Enforcement Agency to verify the authenticity of Vehicle number plates. “It is noteworthy to state that this administration has simplified the process for the issuance of drivers’ license. The period for obtaining drivers license has reduced from 6 weeks to 2weeks. “As at February 2020, a total of 191, 028 drivers license were processed and issued to their owners in the most seamless way. Likewise, there has been significant improvement in obtaining new number plates. It takes just a day to process and obtain new number plates now under the present administration. This is a departure from the obsolete cumbersome registration process,” Frederic stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .