• Condemns Use Of Drones, Sophisticated Weapons 
The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union  (SOKAPU), has accused the Federal Government of complicity in the attacks and killings in Kajuru communities in Southern Kaduna by Fulani herdsmen, just as it alleged the used of military drones and other sophisticated weapons in the bloody crisis. According to the body, following the attacks and killings, the indigenes of the affected areas are now fleeing from their ancestral homes. The Group called for the intervention of the international community to prevent genocide in Southern Kaduna. Addressing a press conference yesterday, SOKAPU President, Jonathan Asake said that on  “Monday May 11, Gonar Rogo another community in Kajuru council, came under assault from Fulani herdsmen Militia.  The following day, the attackers extended their murderous expedition to Bakin Kogi, where residents had fled the town. They burnt down the town and launched another assault on another village, Idanu. In the early hours of Wednesday, the murderous gang of terrorists moved to Makyali, where several persons were killed.”  He added that Efele, Ungwan Modi and Ungwan Rana villages were also attacked and hundreds of residents displaced. Similarly, Galiwyi community in Chikun council came under invasion by the marauding herdsmen militia who chased away the men and turned their wives and daughters into sex slaves after occupying the community, he said. According to him, the attacks lasted for a week without any intervention from the authorities, adding that tension has spread to several communities in Kajuru council especially Idon and Doka, with fear-stricken residents fleeing in droves fearing impending attacks. He said: “We are therefore very pained and shocked at the reaction of the Presidency that asserted that these unprovoked attacks were reprisals and revenge.” “We are extremely disappointed that Senator Uba Sani, who is the Senator representing Kaduna Central, should describe these attacks as revenge because he should know the truth. Could it be that the Presidency and Sani know what we don’t know? “We wish to alert the world that Southern Kaduna communities have been under constant invasions and massacres that is fast assuming a genocidal proportion. Despite the current lockdown caused by COVID-19 pandemic, our communities are being invaded on a daily basis and chased out into other communities as internally displaced Persons (IDPs) only for a short period before the host communities are also invaded and further displaced.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .