 Gernot Rohr  The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has begun moves to finalise Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr’s new contract within one week, with a view to getting the German ready to continue working on getting the senior national team to the top of the world game. The NFF’s new deal proposal for the former Bordeaux defender has some clauses, which the coach must agree to if he desired to continue managing the Super Eagles. Among the conditions is that he must reside in Nigeria to monitor the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) players. This is aside accepting that his salary would be paid in naira. Yesterday, the NFF’s executive committee in a communique issued after its video conferencing mandated its Secretary General, Sanusi Mohammed, to “liaise with Rohr with a view to concluding all matters around his new contract within the next one week.” Aside issues on Rohr’s new contract, the NFF also acknowledged FIFA’s advice on how to utilise the $500,000 relief fund sent to the federation and directed its secretariat to set machinery in motion to ensure the fund was utilised to the letter as advised by FIFA. “The core areas approved for the utilisation in line with the FIFA Forward 2.0 Programme include but not limited to management and staff salaries, men’s league, women’s league, referees’ development training, National Teams (including boys and girls’ youth teams), office operations, renovations and furnishing of Bauchi NFF/FIFA technical centre,” it said.
 
The federation, which yesterday distributed palliatives to the Lagos State government, just as it earlier did to Kano and the Federal Capital Teriitory, Abuja, praised its members, as well as management and secretariat staff involved in the distribution of the palliatives. According to the communiqué, the executive committee also “endorsed the re-jigging of the terms of reference and objectives of the NFF Foundation, which was set up in July 2019.
 
“The Foundation, headed by Mr. Mohammed Edewor (who was also part of the meeting for more than 30 minutes), will now add to its original mandate of raising funds for empowerment initiatives for former internationals by way of training and skill development; football community and social change programmes; grassroots development programmes and; football-for the girl-child and women football empowerment programmes. Mr. Edewor availed the committee of ongoing efforts at raising funds to kickstart the work of the Foundation, some of which has already met with success.”
 
With a view to being ready anytime the Federal Government announced the resumption of sporting activities across the country, the NFF mandated “its Football Committee to liaise with the heads of the various Leagues (Nigeria Professional Football League; Nigeria National League; Nigeria Women Football League and; Nigeria Nation-wide League One) and other important stakeholders on the return of the domestic football season.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .