Different groups and stakeholders in Cross River State have lauded the National Working Committee (NWC) of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for standing by the truth and ensuring true democracy in the recent ward and local council congresses in the state. The National Assembly members and PDP stakeholders in the state have been at loggerheads with the state governor and PDP state executive over the congresses. The NWC, in a letter signed by its National Organising Secretary, Col Austin Akobundu (rtd.) dated April 26, 2020, issued a list of the ward and chapter executives for the state, as the authentic list and went ahead to declare the list displayed by the governor’s group as fake. A group, Vanguard for True Democracy, expressed its gratitude to the PDP NWC for standing by the truth, as far as award and local council congresses were concerned. The Coordinator, Etim Effiong, said: “By sticking to the tenets of democracy in the list of new ward and local council Executive Committee members for the 196 wards and 18 local councils in the state, the party has shown it is committed to the people and has shown it stands for truth and defence of democracy. “The NWC has shown it is for the people. The party is greater than any individual and so, the Vanguard for True Democracy in Cross River State chapter is standing with the NWC and NEC of our great party…” Similarly, members of the Cross River State PDP Patriots (CRSPP) congratulated the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and members of the NWC for  liberalising the internal political processes of the party during their inauguration A statement signed by its Coordinator, Austine Edibe and seven others,  said: “The people have grown in confidence, regarding the democratic process and are elated, knowing that their votes truly count.” The groups charged the victors to show magnanimity in victory and accommodate their compatriots, who lost the elections to build a formidable party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .