Show me a strange week and I’d show you this week. More than ever in recent times, events that were thought impossible and unrealistic were the order of the day. From jaw-dropping stories to regrets, Here is a rundown of the week. Goat and pawpaw | Photo BioReports A Pawpaw fruit did what? The people of Tanzania were in for the shock of their lives after a goat and pawpaw tested positive for the coronavirus. The story goes that the Tanzanian security forces were informed by President Magufuli to check the quality of the kits gotten from “abroad”. They decided to randomly obtain several non-human samples, including from a pawpaw fruit, a goat and a sheep and were left stunned. “There is something happening. I said before we should not accept that every aid is meant to be good for this nation,” the president said and err… we agree. The 5-year-old | Photo UTHighwayPatrol Lamborghini dreams A 5-year-old boy was pulled over by the police in Utah, United States while driving his parent’s car to California to buy a Lamborghini. The officers initially thought he was an impaired driver or someone experiencing a medical emergency and were shocked [the same way we still are] to discover it was a young boy. When questioned, the boy told them he left home after an argument with his mom, in which she refused to buy him a Lamborghini. So he decided to go get one himself. Except that he had only $3 (₦1,172). Clarence Peters and Kodak | BellaNaija A sad moment Ace Nigerian music video director Clarence Peters addressed the death of dancer and video vixen Picture Kodak (Love Divine Ike) who was reportedly electrocuted in his studio after he visited the Police. According to him, Picture Kodak was in the dance studio on the premises of Capital Dreams Pictures with five other team members as well as him. “The witnesses didn’t realize anything was wrong until they saw she had laid down, and they noticed smoke coming from her chest area,” he wrote. Although she was rushed to two hospitals, they refused to admit her because they feared she was a COVID-19 patient. May the departed find rest. Michael Jordan | Photo Vulture Off-court appeal What does being an icon mean? Well, NBA superstar Michael Jordan recently showed us a glimpse of that. David Falk who is the former agent to the former Chicago Bulls star revealed that he brought Jordan a $100 million deal some years back but the NBA legend turned it down. What was the requirement? Make a two-hour appearance at an event. Falk discussed how picky his famous client was when it came to projects and was full of admiration of how successful he has become. We know that now and all we can say is wow! Foto druk verkeer in Lagos, Nigeria. Als voorbeeld; graag keuzebeelden<br /> Traffic jams form along Nnamdi Azikiwe street in Lagos January 22,<br /> 2003. Drivers in Lagos are stopping to gape at UFOs – unidentified<br /> flashing objects – that have been mysteriosly appearing at busy<br /> intersections around the city of Lagos, the commercial nerve centre of<br /> Nigeria. REUTERS/George Esiri<br /> GE/GB On the first day… When Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, announced ease of the lockdown, not many could visualize what was to come. Like people released unto freedom, Nigerians came out in droves and major roads, institutions and markers in different parts of the country embraced them so that traffic became the order of the day and banks were overflowing with customers. At the end of the day, what was supposed to be a sort of relief for Nigerians might end up being the first big mistake at this time and we really hope not!