James Kifo. | SDE A Kenyan man identified as James Kifo is currently on the run after he allegedly ‘sealed’ her genitals with glue. He is reported to have attacked his wife by first inserting pepper, salt and onions in her private parts using a sharp knife, before applying superglue mixed with sand to ‘seal’ it up. Making the matter even more gruesome is that the man who is described as “troublesome” by neighbors is said to have committed the dastardly act as their three-year-old son watched. The boy’s cries alerted neighbors in the Kamatungu village to the gruesome attack that left the victim with serious injuries. According to the Tharaka South Police Commander Kiprop Rutto the suspect is on the run. Mr Rutto said the suspect reportedly returned home from Nairobi on Saturday night and told his wife that they had to shift from their home to another location to avoid being arrested for leaving Nairobi area, which is under lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic. He said they left home but on reaching Kathita River, the man, who threatened to kill the woman, ordered her to undress. The suspect is said to have ordered the woman to name all the men she had slept with while he was in Nairobi. After sexually assaulting her, he also sealed her ears and mouth with the mixture of glue and sand and left her for dead. Rutto, describing the attack as dehumanising and said the police were on the suspect’s trail. “The guy did very bad things,” said Rutto. What should have been a happy reunion for the Tharaka Nithi couple after nearly two months apart has now turned into a traumatising experience. Another man who was identified as Murimi alleged the suspect had told the woman’s parents he would kill her. The police said the couple had a history of violence. The woman had run away several times to escape the abuse but the man would woo her back, another villager said. “On hearing about the ordeal, her parents sent Sh2,000 as fare for her to return home, as she feared for her life. But somehow the daughter did not run away as instructed,” said another villager privy to the rocky marriage between the two. Another source claims the man has been on police radar for pending court cases after allegedly committing robberies locally and running away to Nairobi’s Utawala. “He arrived home in darkness and found the wife and child, and warned her against alerting anyone that he was around. He said he had managed to sneak out of Nairobi and that local police would arrest him if they knew. He managed to deceive the wife to leave the house with him and the son. He told her it was safer for them to go to his cousin’s home, not far away, because he feared the police might know he was around,” said the source. The three of them left their home around 10pm but on reaching a secluded dark area, the man stopped her and ordered her to address. Not knowing why, she resisted but the man descended on her with slaps, rocking her body. It was at that point that he menacingly asked her to count how many men had slept with her while he was away. “She obliged and undressed. From a bag he had carried, the man removed salt, pepper, onions and superglue and proceeded to assault her. As he did so, he instructed his son to hold the spotlight for him,” police said. An official at Marimanti Sub-county Hospital said the woman was treated and discharged.  “We are following strong leads. We are hot on his trail,” said the source, who revealed that the victim’s mother had picked her and left for Nyahururu.