 Sadiya Umar Farouq<br />PHOTO:Twitter  The Coronavirus ravaging the entire world has presented an unprecedented humanitarian, economic and health crisis that has required all hands to be on deck to help the vulnerable population navigate the crisis. This was contained in the speech the minister Hajia Sadiya Umar Farouq presented at the distribution of the materials to some Orphanages in FCT which was made available to The Guardian in Abuja yesterday. The Orphanages present that were at the venue of the distribution include Anawim Homes (Poorest of the Poor), Gwagwalada; Holy Family Sisters of the Needy; Halal Children, Lugbe; Al-Ansar Home, Kuje and St Mary’s Home for Orphans, Gwagwalada. Farouq said the ministry identified through consultation with homes, NGOs and CSOs, 25 orphanages which will be impacted by the intervention.
She explained that exercise was a flag off because they will be extending the solidarity and support to other orphanages across the country. “I am delighted at this unique opportunity of joining you today. The point has been made that in times of crisis, the vulnerable members of our community are often the most impacted.
“When I speak of the vulnerable I speak of our elderly, people living with disability, women with children, young children and those separated by circumstances from their families and loved ones.” She explained that two weeks earlier the ministry visited a cluster of People Living with Disabilities at Karmajiji to provide them with palliatives while a week after that extended the benevolence to the Elderly people at Karshi. She commended the management of the homes taking care of the children who have, through no fault of theirs, been denied the warmth of home and hearth.
“As Africans, we know that it takes a village to raise a child, so by joining you today, we are forming a village of the concerned who are coming together in solidarity to show love and support to a key segment of our vulnerable population. According to her, part of her mandate as Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development is to provide humanitarian interventions that bring relief to Nigerians citizens home and abroad. “It is in recognition of that mandate that we are here today even though the welfare of orphanages rests with and is a core mandate of the Ministry of Woman Affairs.
“This is at the core of our visit today and we hope that as we distribute these food items, the beneficiaries will have one more reason to smile today.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .