FRSC, Lagos & Ogun States carrying out an on the spot joint assessment of moving the border check point from berger to Opic turning point in tge course of implementing the interstate lockdown at the Ogun-Lagos Border of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway PHOTO: Twitter The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), says it has turned back 1,292 vehicles from Ogun and Lagos States’ boundaries in the last two weeks, while enforcing the Federal Government’s restrictions on interstate movements. Mr Samuel Obayemi, FRSC Zonal Commanding Officer in charge of the two states, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Tuesday in Lagos that the statistics covered the first phase of the lockdown ease in both states. Obayemi, an Assistant Corps Marshal, said that the operatives of the corps, turned back 369 vehicles at the Lagos boundaries and 923 vehicles at Ogun boundaries between May 4 and May 17 of the lockdown ease. According to him, the corps recorded 26 road traffic crashes that claimed 11 lives and injured 61 people during the period. “The zone has not relented on its oars in fulfilling our mandates, especially the Federal Government’s order as regards the ban on interstate movement to curb further spread of COVID-19 pandemic. “The FRSC operatives turned back a total of 1,292 vehicles to their originating places at both Ogun and Lagos borders. “We stopped 1,097 vehicles for routine check in the first phase of lockdown ease between May 4 and May 17. “The zone also recorded 15 crashes in Lagos State where seven people were killed and 31 injured. “Meanwhile in Ogun State, we recorded 11 crashes which claimed four lives and injured 30 people. “As the second phase of the lockdown ease commence yesterday (Monday), we will continue to do our jobs of enforcing the Federal Government’s ban on interstate movement, except for essential services or commodities,” he said. Obayemi, who warned against overloading, said that the zone arrested 395 overloaded vehicles in two weeks of the lockdown ease. According to him, motorists and commuters should know that the ban on interstate movement is still in force. The zonal commanding officer urged road users to drive carefully and take responsibility for their own safety on the roads. NAN reports that President Muhammadu Buhari, had announced the gradual easing of the lockdown of Lagos, Ogun and Abuja, from May 4 to May 17. The president, also placed ban on interstate movements, except for essential services to checkmate further spread of the virus in the country. However, on Monday, Boss Mustapha, the Chairman, Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, announced the extension of the gradual ease and ban on interstate movement for another two weeks, from May 17 to June 1. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .