Ericsson PHOTO: Cristina Arias | Cover | Getty Images Mobile telecommunications company Ericsson has advised countries and telecommunication companies to invest in strengthening their digital infrastructures during the coronavirus pandemic due to the surge in the use of network-based communication and collaboration tools. Head of Networks at Ericsson Middle East & Africa Chafic Traboulsi during a webinar said efforts to safeguarding and strengthening key digital infrastructures should be key priorities in unforeseen realities as the world is currently experiencing. “During these challenging times, service providers are focusing their attention on solving the myriad of challenges that have been created or exacerbated by the pandemic,” Traboulsi said. “It’s critically important to ensure that service providers consider the importance of planning and optimizing their networks.” He stated that Ericsson’s network design and optimization response helps service providers handle the changing traffic patterns to sustain high-performing connectivity through a multi-pronged approach which covers an immediate network uplift, planning and dimensioning and a virtual drive test. Traboulsi explained that safeguarding and strengthening key digital infrastructures as well as enabling the continuous development of the underlying technologies such as 5G, IoT, Automation and Artificial Intelligence (AI) will be crucial enablers as service providers emerge from the crisis. The webinar which hosted telecommunication professionals and journalists discussed network capacity, performance and digitization to help service providers gear up for an unprecedented situation presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. Ericsson presented how the company is working with telecom service providers to manage their networks and face continued changes in traffic patterns during uncertain times. Head of Networks at Ericsson Middle East and Africa Chafic Traboulsi Traboulsi explained that reduced mobility forced by lockdown in different countries has changed utilization patterns and caused a high concentration on suburban areas. “Fixed and mobile telecommunications networks have experienced major shifts in traffic as more lockdowns mean a decrease of data traffic in urban areas and an increase in suburban and residential areas,” Traboulsi said. He said the lockdown puts a dramatic day-long pressure on home connectivity due to work-from-home, online education and other areas has contributed to the largest share of increased traffic being absorbed by the residential networks Other factors that have contributed to higher bandwidth demand according to Traboulsi includes videoconferencing, gaming and streaming on major social media networks and video streaming platforms. He stated that 5G can deliver better user experiences even with increased Mobile Broadband (MBB) traffic and enable new gaming experience and applications usage through use cases such as remote classroom environment with Virtual Reality (VR) and holographic interaction for remote workers. On the other hand, Artificial Intelligence and Automation, he said, will be essential to restart the supply chains through manufacturing process automation in connected factories, reducing human exposure risk in transporting goods through connected fleets and self-driving trucks along with a lot of other applications. “Some of these new and improved solutions will play a key role in saving lives, while others will help save businesses, support public health and welfare services, and ease recovery after the crisis. It has made it easier to see beyond the efficiency-related, economic benefits of digitalization and recognize its broader benefits to society and humanity as a whole,” Traboulsi said, Traboulsi said the webinar was Ericsson’s way of staying close to customers and supporting them in managing capacity and performance in the crisis situation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .