• Arewa leaders urge govt to protect citizens
• Masari receives three kidnap victims Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Nasarawa State, Bishop Joseph Masin, has been kidnapped. A witness told The Guardian in Lafia that about five gunmen invaded the home of the CAN chairman at Bukan Sidi area about 11p.m. on Wednesday and took him away about 1a.m. on Thursday to an unknown destination. The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bola Longe, said the abductors of the CAN chairman took him away on motorcycle. In a related development, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has condemned the attacks and killings in Sokoto State by armed bandits, urging government to ensure that lives and property of Nigerians were adequately protected. The northern socio-cultural group said that Northern leaders were disturbed by the wave of insecurity and the activities of bandits across the nation. National Publicity Secretary of ACF, Emmanuel Yawe, stated yesterday that the group received disturbing reports on increasing deadly attacks on some communities in Sokoto by armed bandits. His words, “The most recent reports indicate that on Wednesday, the bandits attacked Garki, Kutuma and Kazuri villages in Sabon Birni Council. Other places under attack include Faji, Lanjega, Kadaye, Marakwa and Garin Ahmadu. “The reports said over 60 people were killed while others were injured and rushed to the hospital. Hundreds of those who survived are reported to have fled their homes for safety. “The Forum is disturbed by this wanton destruction of life and property of innocent, law abiding citizens in Northern Nigeria. The Forum condoles with those who lost their loved ones, the wounded and those who have been displaced. We also sympathise with the Sokoto government over the loss of her citizens.” It also called on the federal and state governments as well as security agents to close ranks and come up with adequate security measures to protect the citizenry. Meanwhile, Katsina State Governor Aminu Masari has received three people, including 17-year-old Sa’adatu Muhammed, who were rescued by security operatives after spending more than 40 days in captivity. The other victims are Abdullahi Muhammed, 40, and Ukashatu Badamasi, 29, all of Nasarawa village in Kankia Council. Their rescue followed major military onslaught ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari a few days ago against bandits and other criminals terrorising hapless citizens in the state. Narrating his ordeal, Muhammed said he was at the den of the bandits in a Zamfara forest to pay ransom for an old woman that was earlier kidnapped. He said the woman had been kidnapped along with Sa’adatu, but that the bandits after collecting the money, released the woman, but refused to let him go. “Every night, the bandits held parties and enjoyed themselves for hours. During such merriment, they always cast aspersions on the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai. “The security personnel that rescued us showed expertise and superior fire power against the bandits, and two of our captors were killed in the process while a third one managed to escape into the forest,” he revealed. Masari thereafter ordered that the victims be taken care of before they were released to be re-united with their family members. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .