 Gombe state government has inaugurated 60-bed capacity isolation centres at Kaltungo General Hospital equipped by CA- COVID, a coalition of Nigerian private sector.<br />PHOTO:Twitter  With the aim to its determination to expand the frontiers of containment measures against COVID-19 pandemic in the state. The new centre, which used to be the snakebite treatment facility situated inside the General Hospital, Kaltungo was renovated and upgraded by Gombe state government through the state task force on COVID-19 and equipped by CA- COVID, a coalition of Nigerian private sector. Commissioning the centre, the State Deputy Governor, Dr Manassah Daniel Jatau who represented Governor Muhammadu  Inuwa Yahaya said while the government-funded the upgrade of the facility, CA- COVID, a coalition of Nigerian private sector in partnership with the central bank of Nigeria furnished the facility with operational equipment. He said that the gesture by CA-COVID is a big push on the state government in handling the Coronavirus pandemic which has a negative effect on entire humanity. Dr Jatau explained that as a global pandemic, Coronvirus has no known trend and presents a lot of thorny issues and challenges with no efficacious treatment known to mankind. He expressed delight over the foresight exhibited by Governor Inuwa Yahaya and the hard-working State Taskforce on Covid-19 who are doing everything possible to curb the spread of coronavirus in Gombe state. The Deputy Governor charged other organizations to borrow a leaf from the donors (CA- COVID), appealing to members of the host community to assist the taskforce by giving them accurate and timely information about suspected cases for immediate quarantine, isolation and treatment. The Deputy Governor also explained that, even though Gombe state has over 67% recovery rate and only 2% death rate, it is not yet over, especially that  World Health Organization warned that the pandemic may not go away early. In their separate remarks, the Chairman, Taskforce on Covid-19, Prof. Idris Mohammed and the Mai Kaltungo, Engr. Saleh Mohammed appreciated CA-COVID for donating beds, PPEs and other items as their contributions in the fight against the disease in Gombe state. The representative of CA-COVID, Mr Louis Ugwuezi listed the items donated to Gombe state Government to include 60 beds for Kaltungo, and 40 beds for Funakaye Isolation Centres, Personal Protective Equipment, PPEs among others. CA-COVID is a joint initiative of leading investors and private sector leaders that launched to galvanise urgent support in the fight against COVID-19 and to strengthen the Nigerian healthcare system. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .