• As Ogun Increases Doctors’ Hazard Allowances, Offers Life Insurance Ogun State Government has reviewed its health workers’ allowances to 300 per cent, in addition to the life insurance policy just put in place to enhance their welfare. Governor Dapo Abiodun, who disclosed this at the weekend during a meeting with representatives of the health workers, at his office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, said the life policy would have taken off immediately but would have to wait for the Federal Government, which is also putting in place a similar programme. Abiodun said his administration was determined to provide adequate healthcare services to the people, adding that the health workers would be appropriately accommodated in the new minimum wage. The governor expressed delight with the negotiation, saying their requests and resolutions with the government was a pointer that they were concerned with what was going on in the sector. While enumerating efforts of his administration to reform the sector, he said prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, rehabilitation of hospitals had begun with 236 primary health care centres across the state.He appealed to health officials not to allow matters to degenerate, but to keep communication open with government. He appreciated health personnel tackling the Coronavirus, assuring them that Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and other accessories needed to perform their duties effectively would be made available. The Commissioner for Health, Dr. Tomi Coker, described the workers as people with passion, who are ready to give their all. The representative of the health workers, Dr. Femi Odubote, extolled the state government for addressing their concerns, as all contending issues were adequately trashed out.
Meanwhile, four medical workers,  two doctors and two nurses of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Abeokuta, the state capital, have reportedly tested positive for Coronavirus. This is in addition to three new cases reportedly recorded at the facility barely a week after a pregnant woman died of the pandemic at the hospital. The new cases, The Guardian learnt were possibly contacts of the two cases recorded last week at the hospital. A pregnant woman and another male patient tested positive penultimate Saturday and the pregnant woman died while awaiting her test result. The management of the hospital confirmed the two cases and immediately, shut down the Accident and Emergency Complex, where the two cases were attended to. A source at the hospital, who spoke under the condition of anonymity, told The Guardian that two nurses, two doctors, two patients were at Cardio Renal Ward, while one patient is at Female Medical Ward. Results confirming their status were received on Friday, the source said.  The Head, Public Relations at FMC, Segun Orisajo only confirmed two cases via a terse statement released on Friday night. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .