 Tiwa Savage  Hosted by Hollywood actor Idris Elba, the show will bring together a star-studded line up of some of the hottest names Africa has to offer.
Viewers can look forward to seeing superstars such as Burna Boy, Sho Madjozi, Tiwa Savage, AKA, Diamond Platnumz, Sauti Sol, Yemi Alade, Fally Ipupa, StoneBwoy, Tiwa Savage, Teni, Angelique Kidjo, and others. Meanwhile, more artists are set to join to make this a monumental experience. The benefit concert will also be made available after Africa Day to encourage people and organisations to continue donations.
 
Speaking ahead of the charity gig, Idris Elba said, “Taking a moment to shine a light on African arts to benefit the African homeland and its people. A continent of this size should find a way to dig deep and stand up for one another at a time like this. It’s important for the future and history will not forget.” For Alex Okosi, Managing Director of Emerging Markets in Europe, the Middle East and Africa at YouTube, “Music is a powerful tool that connects Africans and this Africa Day concert is a great way to bring people together and support a great cause. We are honoured at the opportunity to bring the power of YouTube to support this great initiative.”
 
On his part, Monde Twala, Senior Vice President for ViacomCBS Networks Africa Youth, Music & Entertainment Channels, said, “The COVID-19 pandemic has affected the livelihoods of millions across the continent and is going to require a massive collaborative effort if we are to make it through. ViacomCBS Networks Africa is proud to partner with YouTube and Idris Elba as we lead the efforts for immediate food and health assistance on the continent at the Africa Day Benefit At Home concert. We are coming together as Africans to take care of our own.”
 
The COVID-19 pandemic has affected the lives of many and disrupted economic activities, which has increased the threat to food and health security on the continent. All donated proceeds will be funneled towards tackling this humanitarian crisis.