– HURIWA flays murder of Fulani in Kogi, warns of fake almajirai from North to South
– Kogi police arrest killer Fulani, cows in Egume Worried by the incessant kidnappings and killings by herders in his locality, Umar Barde representing Chikun/Kajuru federal constituency of Kaduna State has described the killings as a bloody genocide. Barde, who was also the minority whip in the 8th National Assembly, further expressed worry over how the criminals carried out their inhuman acts despite the lockdown occasioned by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Chairman of Kaduna State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Joseph Hayab; and president of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union (SOKAPU), Jonathan Asake, had condemned the attacks on inhabitants of the southern Kaduna communities by gunmen while blaming the government for not arresting the situation. Last Monday, bandits suspected to be kidnappers attacked Kuriga, Komo, Danhonu II and Doka Mai Jama’a communities in Chikun Council of Kaduna and abducted 15 persons including a village head, while a security guard, Emmanuel Yerima, was killed. The lawmaker stressed the need for proactive measures to avoid reoccurrence. Meanwhile, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has condemned the reported killing of three herders by unidentified militia in Egume, Dekina Council of Kogi State, at the weekend. HURIWA blames the escalating bloodshed and wanton violence to the inability and unwillingness of the Federal Government in the past five years to holistically confront the violence by armed Fulani herders, which largely targeted farming communities leading to the killing of an undetermined number of landowners. According to the rights group, Nigeria stands the risk of witnessing massive reprisal killings against the Fulani because of the bloody violence unleashed on farming communities all over Nigeria without the Federal Government doing anything under the law to arrest, prosecute and punish the armed Fulani herdsmen and their sponsors in and out of government circles. The Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, and the Media Affairs Director, Zainab Yusuf, stated that the recent killing of innocent Fulani in Kogi was unfortunate, and a dastardly crime against humanity by some armed cowards. In another development, the Kogi police command has arrested a man in connection with the killing of some Fulani and their cows in Acharu Egume, Dekina Council. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP William Aya, who confirmed the arrest to The Guardian in Lokoja, said one Danjuma Adamu, aged 35 years, was among the five suspects involved in the killing, four of them still at large. His words, “One suspect by name Danjuma Adamu, male, 35 years old, of Acharu Egume, who is involved with other four suspects at large in the killing of the Fulani and their cows at Acharu farm on May 12, 2020, was arrested this evening.” According to him, the team raised by the Commissioner of Police, CP Ede Ayuba, is currently on the trail of the other suspects. Investigation has since commenced on the matter, he said, assuring that the suspects will be made to face the full wrath of the law when apprehended. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .