As part of efforts to provide relief to communities amidst the global health emergency of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, Ebegonye Daniel Elaigwu, has produced and distributed 500 hand sanitizers to less privileged members of the society in Plateau State. The hand sanitizers, which were produced and distributed to two orphanage homes, The House of Recap and Clapai Orphanage High School and five local government areas, Mangu, Bassa, Shendam, Jos North and Jos South were targeted at less privileged members of the society who cannot afford to purchase the sanitizers. He stated that it was also in line with the same spirit of obeying the clarion call to selfless service to humanity and rendering his effort to the collective resolve to fight the pandemic that has infected over 5,000 Nigerians across the country. While presenting the hand sanitizers to the orphanage homes, the state co-ordinator, NYSC Plateau State, Caroline W. Embu, appreciated the corps member’s initiative to reach out to orphanage homes. She further highlighted the importance of the frequent use of hand sanitizers to kill germs and bacteria to improve personal hygiene in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Meanwhile, the NYSC has extended its community service to Nigeria Correctional Custodian Farm Project, Lamingo were a total of 50 hand sanitizers, 100 nose marks with 16 litres of hand wash were produced and distributed to the inmates by Charity and Gender CDS group. The officer in charge of the prison, CSC Yusuf Adamu, represented by DSC Joyce Adamu, noted that the gesture by the scheme would further give the inmates hope of belonging to the society. The head of inmates, Garba Lawal, while appreciating the gesture revealed that hope had been lost since the pandemic began, which has made them lost touch with families and friends outside the prison. “We have already lost hope since the pandemic started in Nigeria. We no longer have visitors and contact with our people outside the prison. I was surprised to see corps members here with this gesture”, he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .