In late December 2019, an epidemic broke out in the city of Wuhan, Hubei province, China with devastating consequences to the lives of the people and the economy of the country. From the epicentre of coronavirus in Wuhan, the disease has spread far and wide to countries in all the six continents, claiming over 315, 000 people world-wide, thus becoming a pandemic as declared by the World Health Organization (WHO). As of today, almost five million people have been infected by the virus. Countries like the US, Italy, Spain, the UK and Ecuador are the hardest hit with hundreds of thousands of people going to the great beyond. And sadly, the infections and death toll are still counting as if on vengeance for what no one knows!  Even advanced countries like the United Kingdom, the US, Italy and Spain have been overstretched and overwhelmed by the sheer scale of the infections and the high death rates despite their high technology-driven healthcare system, ultra-modern infrastructure and well-trained health personnel. The gory sights of dead bodies in body bags is a stark reminder that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic is a collective responsibility of all and sundry – not that of the government alone.  His Excellency, the Executive Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, OFR had to personally intercept some vehicles conveying many people from coming into the state upon receiving intelligence reports that some people had been flouting the lockdown order.
 
However, in spite of all these commendable efforts and measures, in the last few weeks, Kano State has seen a spike in the number of infections and is now the second in the country after Lagos State with 761 cases and 35 deaths while 93 have so far been discharged as at 16th May 2020.  As we wage this war against the pandemic sweeping across the entire globe like a raging bush fire, we should realize that wars are prosecuted and won only through deliberate collective and concerted efforts. We should stop living in denial about the mortal danger of this pandemic, shun baseless misinformation in the guise of conspiracy theories, avoid gathering of people of whatever nature, embrace social or physical distancing, strictly comply with the government’s stay-at-home directive which is not as stringent as in other states, wear face masks and practise personal hygiene by regularly washing our hands with soap and water, using hand sanitizers if available, and, wait for this, constantly praying to the Almighty to hearken to our cries for the end of this pandemic.   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .