Former  Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State, Mr. Banji Okunomo, has declared that the party would not give anybody anywhere automatic ticket as the party’s flagbearer in the forthcoming governorship election. Okunomo, who stated this yesterday in Akure, reiterated that he was the only candidate to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). However, the PDP Secretary of Ilaje Local Council, Banjo Ikunogbon, re-affirmed the endorsement of Okunomo as the consensus candidate of the party in the council. Meanwhile, there have been rumours that the state Deputy Governor, Agboola Ajayi, had perfected plans to ditch the ruling APC to pick the PDP’s governorship ticket for the October 10, 2020 poll. It was also gathered that some PDP governors were lobbying the aspirants to cede the governorship ticket to Ajayi as the flagbearer of the party in the election.
But Okunomo said: “That is not true, far from the truth; it is a figment of some people’s imaginations. PDP is a democratically-inclined party that would not tolerate such act. It is a mere rumour to cause disaffection within the party. “It is a political ploy to distract the people. Our party, as a disciplined one, wouldn’t do that, it is a mere rumour. Though we won’t stop anybody to join our party and contest if qualified, we shall all test our popularity and acceptability on the field.” In a related vein, former Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State, Isaac Kekemeke, has reiterated that he would contest the October 10, 2020 governorship poll in the state and win with large margin. He said that he had no plan to step down from the race either for the incumbent governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, or any other aspirant. Kekemeke, who spoke with journalists at his campaign office in Akure, said that he was not one of those serial contestants planning to step down on understanding that power would shift to Ondo South in 2024. He said that as a serious-minded person that does not change his mind once he sets his mind to achieving a goal, would create a prosperous and peaceful state if elected where the citizens would be productively engaged to enable them live meaningful, comfortable and decent life. The erstwhile attorney-general and commissioner for justice of the state added that it was a disservice to the state for aspirants to argue that their only qualification for leadership was where they come from at a particular time. He said Ondo State people deserve the best to lead them at this unusual time, adding that no group of persons had ever determined who becomes the governor through zoning. According to him, Ondo people, through their votes, have always decided who becomes governor and then it is counted for the zone the governor comes from. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .