For the cost of governance to be reduced and ensure fiscal discipline, the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA), has advised that government must go beyond the implementation of the Oronsanye’s report by deliberately reducing leakages arising from over-bloated retinue of aids of political officers.
 
They argued that reducing leakages from retinue of aids of political officers and their expenditure profile, which has no direct national development impact, would reduce the cost of governance in the country.
 
Director-General of NECA, Timothy Olawale, who commended the Federal Government for approving the implementation of the long-overdue report, noted that government needed to fast-track the deregulation of the downstream oil sector and re-chart the course for rapid diversification of the economy. 
 
Olawale, who affirmed the imperative for reduced government expenditure, said reducing leakages would lead the country to national economic and social renaissance.
   
He urged that all efforts must be made to see to a logical conclusion the implementation of the report as directed by the President Buhari.
 
According to him, recent global economic downturn has proved that the country could not afford the burden of wasted billions of Naira and over-lapping roles of some of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). 
 
He maintained that some overlapping activities of the MDAs are, in reality, hindered the ease of doing business efforts of government.
 
Shedding light on the need for a wholesale implementation of the Report, the NECA boss expressed that “the Oronsanye Report should not suffer the fate of the Ahmed Joda Panel Report and the Allison Ayida Report of 1995. Both Reports made bold attempt to recommend the rationalization of Government Agencies and Parastatals. However, both suffered fatal fate because of the lack of political will to implement the Reports.
 
“Over the past years, we have reiterated that the implementation of the Report is fundamental to the institutionalisation of operational efficiency and reduction of Government expenditure in the long term. It is worrisome that with over two hundred and fifty Institutions, Parastatals and Agencies of Government, the average cost of governance in Nigeria remains among the highest globally”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .