 Adam Oshiomhole  New Friends
WHAT became Obaseki’s battle cry was his claim that godfatherism was at play, and that Oshiomhole had handed him the short end of the stick. His cries won him sympathisers across the political spectrum in Edo and across the country.
  
First was the governor’s endorsement by the Esama of Benin, Chief Gabriel Igbinedion, who apart from being the father to former governor is also a respected voice in the Edo traditional governance institution. He paid glowing tributes to the efforts of Obaseki.
 
Other notable PDP leaders in the state, including Chief Tom Ikimi, followed suit in singing the praise of Obaseki’s performance in office, particularly the incumbent’s exploits in the area of infrastructure uplift and socio-economic well being of the state.
   
Amid the outpouring of moral support for the governor, sources disclosed how Obaseki reached a covert political understanding with a cross-section of politicians that would midwife a consensus arrangement for his eventual re-election despite the shenanigans of the other camp.
 
Members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) loyal to Oshiomhole were said to have gone to town with tales of a possible defection by the governor from APC to PDP shortly after the meeting between Obaseki and some PDP sympathizers (go-betweens). But, an APC chieftain of from Auchi told The Guardian in confidence last week that the political arrangement with PDP did not envisage the crossover of the governor.  
  
“It was a psychological strategy to prey on the sentiments of those who believe that Oshiomhole was having the upper hand. The governor deployed deep thinking and looked ahead to what would obtain after the governorship election has been won and lost.
 
“With the way things are going, I can tell you that the strategy is working in his favour. After the election, you will see what would play out over the 14 vacant seats in Edo House of Assembly. Those who think PDP is not strong in the state will swallow their pride,” the source, a former lawmaker, stated. Waiver Politics, APC/PDP’s Games
ALTHOUGH the state PDP chairman, Chief Tony Aziegbemi, told The Guardian that it was insulting to say that the party, as huge as it is, struck a deal with Governor Obaseki, the intrigues that preceded Chief Dan Orbih’s exit suggested otherwise.
   
Orbih, the immediate past state chairman, was accused of creating the ground for the speculated interest of Obaseki to contest the 2020 governorship on the PDP, a development which the 2016 governorship candidate of the party, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, gave as reason for his decision to jump ship into APC.   
   
Having joined APC, Ize-Iyamu was said to have received assurances from APC stakeholders, especially former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Oshiomhole, that his return to the party would earn him the party’s ticket to re-contest the governorship after his spirited showing in 2016.
  
Like Ize-Iyamu, a former governorship aspirant on the platform of APC in the state, Kenneth Imasuagbon, had on October 2, 2018 joined PDP in the hope of realizing his governorship aspiration on the party’s platform.
 
But, quite unlike ize-Iyamu’s experience in APC, Imasuagbon, who is the chairman of Pacesetters Group of Schools; did not rejoin a divided party. And being conversant with the constitution of PDP, which he left in anticipation of riding on the federal might of APC to become governor in 2016, Imasuagbon returned to the party exactly two years to the 2020 gubernatorial poll.
 
While supporters of some of his rivals engage in subdued complaints about the issue of waiver for Imasuagbon, those in the know insist that the ‘Riceman’ had no need for such, having been in the party for more than one year.
   
Speaking on the issue of waiver, as well as the preparedness of PDP to engage in competitive gubernatorial poll come September 19, the state chairman, Aziegbemi said: “We are very ready and thinking through the processes, we expect the process to be well managed.”
 
As to whether the PDP governorship standard-bearer would emerge through consensus and what becomes of Imasuagbon, Aziegbemi explained that the issue of consensus depends on the aspirants, assuring that “we will not force consensus on them.”
  
His words: “We assure our aspirants of level playfield. The party will make sure that the primary would be credible, free and fair. The issue of waiver is provided in PDP’s constitution, but that is beyond the state chapter. I don’t think Imasuagbon needs a waiver, he has been with us for more than one year.”
  
Although it was apparent that PDP was speaking tongue-in-cheek about its relationship with Obaseki against the backdrop of the desire of some members to help the governor vanquish Oshiomhole and requite him for his “bad political behaviour after his election,” the situation in APC is not clement for Ize-Iyamu.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .