Most people prefer their water cold when they drink water but surprisingly, regularly drinking very warm water, especially in the morning has a handful of benefits. According to ancient Chinese medicine and Indian culture, starting the day with a glass of hot or warm water can help to kick-start the digestive system and serves a holistic health remedy. Find below some of the surprising benefits of drinking hot or warm water. Aids digestion
Drinking hot water not only soothes but also activates your digestive tract. Water is lubrication and it keeps digestion going. Drinking hot water keeps your stomach, intestines and digestive organs better hydrated to eliminate waste. Unlike cold water, hot water can dissolve things you have eaten that the body has trouble digesting. Relieves nasal congestion
The neck and upper torso has mucous membrane and drinking hot water can help warm that area as well as soothe a sore throat. Not only that, inhaling the steam from hot water can help loosen clogged sinuses and even relieve a sinus headache. Keeps you hydrated
Hot water is no different from room temperature or cool water when it comes to keeping you hydrated. Helps relieve constipation
Hot water aids the intestines to contract and when this happens, old waste trapped in the intestines passes out of the body. Drinking hot water when you are constipated is also a good idea. Soothes central nervous system
Drinking hot water calms the central nervous system and lubricates the body. It is also recommended that a person who has arthritis benefits from using hot water as a central nervous system calmer. Assists with weight loss
Drinking hot water wakes your body’s temperature control system up. As your body compensates for the warm temperature of the water, it brings your internal temperature down, and activates your metabolism. Hot water also helps your intestines contract to clear out waste products that are bloating your body, which gets rid of the dreaded “water weight.” Better circulation
The warmth from drinking hot water or bathing at night time can help relax you and prepare you for restful sleep. Drinking warm water before bed is a great way to wind down after a busy day.   Read More: Ways to prevent constipation 