Niger Delta Movement for Peace and Justice (NDMPJ) has expressed support for the move by the National Assembly to investigate the alleged mismanagement of over N40 billion in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) under the Interim Management Committee (IMC). This was contained in a statement entitled ‘Unprecedented Impunity, Corruption and Abuse of Power in NDDC: NASS to the Rescue’ signed by the national coordinator of the group, Etifit Nkereuwem, in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, yesterday. According to the civil society group, such move is good and a wake-up call to elected representatives to always execute programmes that would be of benefit to the people, thereby promoting the socio-economic wellbeing of the people, particularly the poor masses. “NDMPJ has risen in strong support of the National Assembly on their well-thought-out investigation into the allegation of mismanagement and misappropriation of over N40 billion in NDDC under the IMC without recourse to established processes of funds disbursement and the Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007. “It is in the interest of our democratic governance that we totally align with the National Assembly in its bid to restore sanity, order, probity and accountability in the Commission through proper investigation into this misrule. “We therefore urge the National Assembly members to remain firm in this national assignment and rise as patriots, democrats, nationalists and custodians of the people’s mandate against this clear case of injustice, abuse of power and corruption in an unprecedented manner,” the group stated. According to NDMPJ, the development has derailed the NDDC from achieve its objective. “The IMC has been bedevilled by the same financial misappropriation and outright fraud in the management of funds in the NDDC. “It is alleged that the committee has spent over N40 billion in the last three months without following due process which is not in tandem with the anti-corruption crusade of President Buhari,” the statement added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .