‘Nigerians have learnt to value life’ 
Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Muhammad Musa Bello, has solicited support of the Nigerian Army in enforcement of the ban on interstate travels, especially in and out of Abuja. Bello stressed that such support would ensure that the successes recorded so far in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in the FCT were not eroded. The minister, who made the appeal in Abuja yesterday when he received a delegation from the Nigerian Army Headquarters to present Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) to FCT Administration. He said the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic was at a critical stage and required the support of the army to proceed further, noting, “We have now reached a phase in the fight of the pandemic that is very critical, particularly for us in the FCT. “But for us to be able to sustain the efforts, we would like to appeal to the Army High Command to continue to support us, with respect to the lockdown enforcements within the FCT, especially at its entry and exit points.” Presenting the PPEs on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Buratai and the Nigerian Army, leader of the delegation Chief of Civil-Army Relations, Army Headquarters, Abuja, Maj.-Gen H. I. Bature, assured that the Nigerian Army was always willing to support the FCT’s efforts at curbing COVID-19 threats in the country. He explained that the donations were part of the corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts of the Nigerian Army and the continuation of the drive towards strengthening the civil/military relationship in the FCT. Items donated to the FCTA include personal protective suits, face masks, hand sanitisers, hand gloves and buckets.
Minister of State, FCT, Ramatu Tijani Aliyu, Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa and other top officials of the FCT Administration, received the delegation. Meanwhile, Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare, has said the coronavirus pandemic had thought Nigerians to place more value on human life. Dare, who stated this yesterday, said the Federal Ministry of Youths and Sports was ready to launch its “I Choose Life” campaign to address the mental and emotional pressures that could lure Nigerian youths into substance abuse on account of the preventive measures associated with containing the COVID-19 pandemic. His words: “The past few weeks have been extremely disruptive for most of us. We have all taken a hit in one way or the other. The youths are at the stage of their lives where schooling, socialising, entertainment, sports and relaxation form a part of their daily routine and are at the core of the expression of their youthfulness.” Dare noted that the usual outlets that young people at this time use to let off stress and steam have been disrupted, and it would have an effect on their mental, physical and emotional well being.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .