 Udom Emmanuel  Akwa Ibom State has lost another life to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and recorded three new cases during its contact tracing exercise. Governor Udom Emmanuel disclosed this yesterday at Government House, Uyo, while giving update on COVID-19 in the state. The new death brings to two the number of COVID-19 fatalities in the state. According to Emmanuel, the state now has six active cases. “On the last laboratory test we conducted on 44 suspected cases, three persons were confirmed positive, while we lost a 68-year-old woman who was transferred to the centre, totally unconscious. “I use this opportunity to appeal to doctors, whether it is COVID-19 or not, once the illness is beyond what your experience and facility can carry, seek the help of your colleagues. “We would not accept cases of dumping any longer. A situation where you bring a patient in total unconsciousness, and few hours later, the person would just give up the ghost, we wont accept that any longer,” he said. The governor, however, reported that the state recorded remarkable successes in terms of treatment of minor symptoms. “Our recovery rate is remarkable. Only God can help the entire world,” he added. He used the occasion to reiterate the embargo on commuting, warning that anyone caught flouting the order would be detained for 14 days. Meanwhile, over 60 persons who had close contact with the index case in Bayelsa State have been counselled for the 14 days self-isolation, with close supervision. Co-chairman of the state’s COVID-19 Committee and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr. Inodu Apoku, disclosed this yesterday while briefing newsmen on the activities of the committee. A middle-aged woman admitted at the Bayelsa State Specialist Hospital was the first to be diagnosed with the dreaded COVID-19. She was immediately evacuated to the Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital (NDUTH) while government began the tracing of all her contacts. He said all contacts had been assigned volunteer health workers to monitor them daily, while government adequately fed them. “So far, they have all been very cooperative and none has developed any symptom suggestive of COVID-19. They have all been given face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers. “The state government has also made concrete plans to ensure they do not lack basic needs such as food, water and toiletries during this period of self-isolation. “All high risk contacts’ samples have been collected and sent for testing while risk communication and community engagement with these persons are ongoing,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .