The Special Task Force, Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) and the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) have met over ways of ending cattle rustling and other criminalities in Barkin Ladi Local Government area and other parts of Plateau. A statement issued on Sunday in Jos by the Spokesperson of STF, Maj. Ibrahim Shittu said that the meeting had the Commander of the task force, Maj.-Gen. Chukwuemeka Okonkwo in attendance. Shittu said that the meeting held on Saturday at Barkin Ladi and attended by officials of the association in the locality, followed the recent rustling of some cows by suspected criminals in the area. He quoted the commander as saying, in his address, that the meeting had become imperative so as to discuss possible ways of ending rustling and ensuring lasting peace in the area. Okonkwo urged the cattle breeders to eschew violence, avoid taking laws into their hands and embrace peace at all times. He promised to recover all the rustled cows and bring the perpetrators to book. “Appreciable progress has been made in recovering some of the rustled cows, while steps to recover the remaining ones are underway. “The state government is aware of your predicaments and efforts are being made to address them,” the commander said. In his remarks, the Chairman of MACBAN in the locality, Alhaji Shuaibu Bayero, thanked the commander for his efforts towards achieving lasting peace in the state, since assumption of office. He, however, urged the commander to ensure that all the stolen cows were recovered, saying that this was the only means of livelihood of his members. Bayero said that his members, particularly the youth, had been cautioned to eschew any form of violence and desist from counter-attacks as a way of expressing their grievances. He assured the commander of their support and cooperation to enable him to succeed in his quest for lasting peace in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .