The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), has tasked its members on the need to adhere to professional and high ethical standards to achieve profitability and sustainability in their business operations. According to the LCCI President, Mrs Toki Mabogunje, businesses have obligations which transcend profit making, pointing out that adequate attention to integrity of business transactions and practices is key to ensure business continuity and profitability. Mabogunje during the Chamber’s first virtual induction ceremony, added that as a chamber, it believes so much in adopting ethical behaviour and fairness in carrying out business dealings with members, non-members and the society at large, while also expressing the need for the federal government’s protection of the business environment. “Our numbers are growing and this increment equally increases our advocacy strength. I especially welcome the mentee alumni joining us today,” she added.She pointed out that the objective of the Chamber is encapsulated in its mission to promote and protect the interest of its members and the business community at large through public policy advocacy, creation and facilitation of commercial and industrial opportunities, provision of business development service and observance of highest‎ standard of business ethics. She therefore enjoined the newly inducted members to be committed to the ideals of high ethical standards and responsible corporate citizenships. According to her, the Chamber has gone a long way to build its present image and credibility through the vision, selfless services and integrity of its illustrious founding fathers and their worthy successors. Earlier, the Vice President and Chairman, Membership and Welfare Committee, LCCI, Mrs Mojisola Bakare, urged the new members to be guided by the Chamber’s governance framework having being inducted as latest ambassadors. Indeed, 75 members were inducted alongside mentees for the mentorship programme of the Chamber. She reiterated that effective Chamber governance rests upon an institutional framework that promotes fairness, transparency, accountability, and responsibility in the private and public spheres, consistent with the rule of law. She noted that since the Chamber’s inception in 1888, it has been very meticulous in its membership admission process, to preserve its enviable image. “As you have been advised at the briefing session, members are expected to adhere strictly to the chamber’s code of business ethics, high ethical standards and conduct their businesses in a manner that would preserve and strengthen the chamber’s integrity and credibility,” she stressed. The Director-General of the Chamber, Dr. Muda Yusuf, assured the new members of the Chamber’s support, especially in the area of interventions in cases where government’s policies affect their businesses. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .