Trade Union Congress (TUC) Chairman, Lagos State Chapter, Gbenga Ekundayo (left); Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions, Ponnle Ajibola;  Deputy Governor, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat; Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Head of Service, Hakeem Muri-Okunola; and Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Chairperson, Lagos, Agnes Sessi, during the May Day celebration at Lagos House…yesterday. • Dedicates Commemoration To Health Workers 
Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said his administration will always seek harmonious relationship with the workers, as the engine room of the economy, and the nucleus of wealth generation. Reason, he said no stone would be left unturned in the bid to improve the lot of workers. In his address to mark the Workers Day, yesterday, Sanwo-Olu further stated that the commemoration of Workers’ Day every year was a reminder that development must be far-reaching and inclusive to benefit society in general. The governor, who dedicated this year’s May Day to the health workers on the frontline of the battle against coronavirus disease (COVID-19), said his administration would continue to harness the creativity and innovativeness of public servants to positively change the face of the state’s public service, with a view to make the state a 21st Century economy. “Our journey to the full re-opening of our economy has resumed gradually, but we also know that there is still a long way ahead of us, and a great deal of sacrifice and self-discipline. The greater the level of sacrifice and discipline, the faster we will emerge on the other side of this challenge, triumphant and thankful. “The pains of this present struggle are a necessary precursor to the emergence of a banner of victory over our dear state and indeed our nation. We are a resilient people. Invincibility is etched in our DNA. We will not bow to a virus. Let us maintain the pace of this great march to victory. Let us renew our commitment to working harder than ever to achieve our dream of a Greater Lagos. “The times may be tough, but we are by nature resilient and strong, and it is that nature that propels us to overcome adversities and still thrive as a state. That is what the spirit of Lagos is all about. It is a never-say-never spirit,” he said. Sanwo-Olu commended the labour unions for their understanding and cooperation with his administration in the last one year. “I must stress that the industrial harmony and peace we enjoy in the state are, in large part, due to the maturity and cooperation of the labour unions.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .