 Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu PHOTO:Twitter  One disclosed this at the final meeting of the Cabinet Committee to source funding for the Implementation of The National Policy on Methanol Fuel Production in his office on Thursday in Abuja. He further said that coronavirus pandemic has emphasized the need for Nigeria to learn to do things in a different way, adding that science, technology and innovation hold the key to the future of the country. “This Covid-19 pandemic is a wake-up call to believe in ourselves and think of how to produce what we need as a nation, ” he said. The methanol fuel technology policy, he explained could not have come at a better time than now. The meeting had in attendance the Minister of State Science and Technology, Barr. Mohammed Abdullahi, The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Science and Technology, Dr Mohammed Bello Umar, The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Mr Bako Nabasu, The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance, Mr Aliyu Ahmed, the representative of the Minister of Environment, Mr Yunnuss Abdulganiyu, the representative of the Group Managing Director (NNPC), Dr S Jamari and the representative of the Secretary to the Federal Government, Mrs Mary-rose Ozonweke. Onu, however, described methanol as a wonder chemical that could be processed into thousands of by-products that could be used to diversify our economy by powering various sectors. In his words: “This policy will allow us to stop exporting our natural resources in their natural state, help us to process our natural resources, which would create jobs for our people and boost the economy”. On the environmental impact of the Methanol Fuel Technology Policy, the minister said it will drastically reduce and eventually eliminate gas-flaring in the country and reduce the need for felling forest trees for firewood. The Methanol Fuel Technology Policy, he added is important to the nation as it would drastically reduce the importation of gas and petroleum products. “The Policy will impact the energy sector as methanol is cheaper to power electricity into homes, boost vehicle performance and reduce combustion from vehicles. Also, women in the r, rural areas will no longer have to use firewood and kerosene as methanol is cleaner, cheaper and friendly to the environment” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .