One person has been killed and a female police officer abducted while two other persons were gravely injured in separate attacks in Egbado North/ Imeko Afon Federal Constituency in Ogun State by suspected herdsmen. It was gathered that a passenger in a commercial vehicle was attacked on the way from Abeokuta to Ayetoro on Tuesday with the driver shot dead on the spot. About an hour later, a policewoman attached to the Area Command Office, Ayetoro Police Division, was kidnapped and the officer’s car abandoned by the roadside. The abducted officer’s whereabouts is still unknown. Another person, Segun Ileyemi, was attacked earlier around Olorunda on Sunday in an attempt to rob him of his belongings. He was stabbed severally and is still receiving treatment on his hospital bed at the General Hospital, Ayetoro. This was yesterday disclosed by a federal lawmaker representing the area, Olaifa Jimoh Aremu (OJA). He lamented the spate of attacks on his people by the suspected Fulani herdsmen and urged security agencies to live up to their duty of protecting lives and properties in his constituency. Olaifa, while urging the security agencies to be proactive and device measures to arrest the situation, also appealed to the governor, Dapo Abiodun, to pay attention to the plights of citizens in the Egbado North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency in the areas of security and road rehabilitation as criminals often take advantage of the impassable roads in the area to attack their victims. He said: “I am sad to formally bring to the public notice of an unacceptable renewed onslaught of Fulani herdsmen on my constituents of Egbado North/Imeko Afon Federal Constituency in Ogun State. While my people like others globally are grappling with the troubling effects of COVID – 19 pandemic, no fewer than three cases of attacks were recorded on the Abeokuta – Olorunda – Aiyetoro/Imeko Road in the last four days; all in the hand of these tormenting Fulani herdsmen. Reacting, the Public Relations Officer of the Ogun State police command said the police are on top of the situation and were working to rescue the abducted female officer alive and bring the criminals to face justice.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .