 Photo: TECHCRUCNCH  The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), has explained why telecoms consumers are witnessing faster data depletion since the beginning of the lockdown.
   
The Commission, in a public notice, also gave reasons for the various factors affecting the consumption of data.  Ekeh believes the development is a step in the right direction for the government and people of Imo state. ‘‘I sincerely think this is the best palliative citizens of Imo State and corporate organisations doing businesses in Imo have received this season. We intend to roll out multi-million-dollars optic fibre infrastructure across Imo, Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi, and Abia states based on our signed partnership with the Federal Government on InfraCo project. This will significantly alter the destiny of people living in these states and connect them to the global community in no distant time.’’
Further, the Zinox Chairman affirmed that the move by the Governor will go a long way in accelerating the pace of technological and overall human capital development in the state. ‘‘I commend the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, for the uncommon courage, political will and leadership he has shown by being the first governor in the South East to reduce the Right of Way charges. This decision alone has the potential of encouraging more corporate organisations and strategic investors to make critical investments in the state. In addition, it is bound to usher in all-round development, especially by helping citizens of Imo State take their rightful place in the contemporary economy as global citizens, while enhancing their businesses and lifestyle.  Ekeh, who urged other governors in the South East to borrow a leaf from Uzodinma’s example, added that people of the South-East face an uncertain future if governors do not make critical decisions or investments that would better their lot.
  
“Other governors in the South East can borrow a leaf from the example set by the Imo State Governor. It is a very important development that would go a long way in positively altering the development narrative. Actually, the South East is in dire need of these kindss of specific interventions due to the peculiar challenged faced by states in the region,” he noted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .