 Residents try to salvage belongings amongst their houses destroyed at the height of Typhoon Vongfong in San Policarpo town, Eastern Samar province on May 15, 2020, a day after the typhoon hit the town. – Typhoon Vongfong has dumped heavy rains and torn off roofs since it roared ashore on central Samar island on May 14, with hundreds of thousands of vulnerable people in its path on the coast or in flimsy homes. (Photo by Alren BERONIO / AFP) / “The erroneous mention[s] appearing in the metadata of this photo by Alren BERONIO has been modified in AFP systems in the following manner: [San Policarpo] instead of [San Policarpio]. Please immediately remove the erroneous mention[s] from all your online services and delete it (them) from your servers. If you have been authorized by AFP to distribute it (them) to third parties, please ensure that the same actions are carried out by them. Failure to promptly comply with these instructions will entail liability on your part for any continued or post notification usage. Therefore we thank you very much for all your attention and prompt action. We are sorry for the inconvenience this notification may cause and remain at your disposal for any further information you may require.”  Typhoon Vongfong flattened flimsy coastal homes when it roared ashore on central Samar island on Thursday, but then weakened into a severe tropical storm on its path north to the capital Manila. The storm hit as tens of millions of Filipinos are hunkered down at home against the coronavirus, but at least 141,700 had to flee in central Bicol province because of the powerful storm, disaster officials said. “We have to wear masks and apply distancing at all times,” local police official Carlito Abriz told AFP. “It’s difficult to enforce because they (the evacuees) are stressed. But we are doing our best.” Bicol saw less damage than hard-hit Samar, so some of those in shelters had begun to return home after the storm passed on Friday, disaster officials reported. Authorities have said they will run shelters at half of capacity, provide masks to people who don’t have them and try to keep families grouped together. However, many spaces normally used as storm shelters have been converted into quarantine sites for people suspected of being infected with coronavirus. “The challenge really lies in the physical distancing,” said disaster official Junie Castillo, who added they were housing people in classrooms emptied by the pandemic. Fortunately the central region where the storm struck first is not one of the hotspots of the Philippines’ outbreak, which has seen 11,876 reported infections and 790 dead. Overlapping disasters 
Tens of millions more people live along Vongfong’s path, which is forecast to take it near the densely populated capital Manila later Friday or early Saturday. Disaster officials in Manila, which is the centre of the nation’s virus outbreak, said they have not ordered pre-emptive evacuations for the capital but have issued storm warnings. Authorities have not reported any deaths so far, but disaster crews had not yet completed their assessment of hard-hit areas cut off by the storm. It is not unheard of for disasters to overlap in the Philippines, and some 22,000 people were evacuated from the slopes of the active Mayon volcano ahead of the typhoon’s arrival. Heavy rains in the past have sent landslides of debris cascading down the volcano, burying and killing the communities in their paths. Typhoons are a dangerous and disruptive part of life in the Philippine archipelago, which gets hit by an average of 20 storms and typhoons each year. The storms put millions of people in disaster-prone areas in a state of constant poverty and rebuilding. A July 2019 study by the Manila-based Asian Development Bank said the most frequent storms lop one percent off the Philippine economy, with the stronger ones cutting economic output by nearly three percent. Many of the areas in Vongfong’s path have already gone through much of their emergency disaster money while responding to the pandemic, and have asked the national government for help. The country’s deadliest cyclone on record was Super Typhoon Haiyan, which left more than 7,300 people dead or missing in 2013. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .