Ms Ma failed plastic surgery | Oddity A woman referred to as Ms Ma by Chinese media has been left unable to completely close her eyes after a failed double eyelid surgery. She claims that she has had to use a strip of tape to sleep at night after reportedly paying 20,000 yuan ($2,800) for a double eyelid surgery at the Jimei Plastic Hospital in Zhengzhou, Henan province, in September of 2018. The cosmetic procedure artificially creates the Western-style creases on the upper eyelids and is very popular among Asian women who don’t naturally have them. Her surgery didn’t go as planned so she decided to go for a second surgery but this only worsened the situation as she is no longer unable to close her eyes completely. In a viral video, she is heard telling the local press: “My eyes have never been well since the repair operation, I can’t close my eyes properly and would get teary eyes on windy days. I’ve been using the tape for over a year now. I can’t shut my eyes if I don’t use the tape.” Ms Ma failed surgery | Oddity It is reported that she went back to Jimei Plastic Hospital to complain about the double eyelid surgery and she was given two options. The first is to undergo a second corrective surgery – which she is understandably reluctant to accept – or 5,000 yuan in compensation, a quarter of what she paid for the original procedure. However, accepting either option also comes with the need to sign a waiver which absolves the hospital of any future responsibilities relating to Ms. Ma’s case. “[That means] if I have any problems, I can’t contact them. It would have nothing to do with them anymore,” the woman said. The manager of the hospital, a man surnamed Feng, denies ever making such proposal to Ma, claiming that he has requested a legal analysis of the woman’s condition and if it is decided that the surgery is to blame for her problems, the hospital will claim full responsibility. For now, Ms Ma is left with using stripes of tape to be able to fully close her eyes as she continues to seek an acceptable response from the clinic.