Maj. Gen. Shina Ogunbiyi (rtd) (left), member of the emergency operation for COVID-19 Lagos State, Dr. Tokunbo Oluwole, Commissioner 2, Lagos State Health Service Commission, Folasade Olaiya- Segun, Chief pharmacist, Arise Medical Women Outreach To support the on-going battle by the Lagos State government to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, Arise, a charity organisation has donated medical supplies to the Lagos State COVID-19 Response Team. With the donations, ARISE has joined other well-meaning Nigerians and organisations at this crucial time in the fight against COVID-19, particularly the sacrifices that all medical personnel are making, as they occupy the frontline in the battle. For over 11 years, ARISE has continued to reach out to many staring with its pioneer charity work, “Faith and Works” that is over 20 years. The group, which has always complimented government’s efforts in healthcare delivery and employment said it made the donations in line with its vision of being at the forefront of bringing primary healthcare to the needy in the society. The relief materials donated included: 4,000 sanitisers; 20,000 hand gloves and 4,000 facemasks. Speaking during the donation at the Isolation Centre, Yaba, Lagos, the Founder/Convener, ARISE, Dr. Siju Iluyomade, said: “ARISE takes health very seriously because you need to be in sound health to do anything tangible. Apart from the donation of personal protective materials, ARISE has free medicals outreach at the Healing Stripes Hospital for Women every second and last Wednesday of every month. “Also, under our adopt-a-village Scheme, we have adopted many villages In Abuja. We built a full-fledged functional borehole in three of the villages for the schools and separate ones for the communities and their leaders; we built full resource and literacy centres, complete renovations of schools, supplies of stationaries, books and brand-new classroom furniture.” Iluyomade further said: “What keeps me going is the reality that we are able to bring smiles, relief and hope to the lives of the people and the communities we come in contact with. “When you see that overwhelming look on the faces of the women, children and men at times, you even think you have to do more and you see them so elated and thanking God for ARISE. We cannot help but keep going, knowing we are touching and affecting lives positively and giving hope to those that are almost giving up.” “ARISE is a humanitarian and charitable organisation, which has been in the forefront of bringing healthcare delivery to the most vulnerable in the society through mobile clinics, Arise hospitals, as well as donation of boreholes and medical reliefs. “ARISE is all about educating and empowering the Women knowing fully well that if you educate, impart knowledge in the woman and empower her, she in turn will do the same for her children who are the leaders of tomorrow. She will lift up her family, support her spouse and the list is unending, thereby bringing a better future and hope to her loved ones, community and ultimately, her nation. “Remember that women are incubators and bring to birth and to life all they come in contact with. We are created that way,” she stated. Dr. Iluyomade prayed for those in the frontline against COVID-19.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .