Jude Okoye has responded to the allegations made against him by Cynthia Morgan and May D. In a live interview with Instagram influencer Tunde Ednut, Jude Okoye addressed some of the allegations made against him by the dancehall singer who accused him of shipwrecking her music career. Her Stage Name And Social Media Accounts Cynthia Morgan who now goes by the stage name Madrina alleged that she was not allowed to use her stage name and that she no longer had access to her social media accounts following her exit from Jude Okoye’s Northside Records. Speaking to Tunde on the issue, Okoye denied the claim. “I never took that name from her. I don’t have that power.” Okoye added the songstress still had access to her social media account two years after leaving the label. Her Contract With Northside Records Jude stated that the contract Cynthia Morgan had with him (Northside Records) expired in 2017 when responding to a question on if Cynthia Morgan was free. Jude affirmed that Morgan indeed owed him over 40 million dollars. During the course of the interview, he said that he will make the contract available to the public. Read More: Cynthia Morgan’s Ex-Manager Says She Owes Over 40 Million Naira Promotions Cynthia claimed that Jude was not promoting her. “Why are people not asking questions; how come this girl has been down this so long and not even one colleague came up to her rescue? Not rescue as in giving her money or sponsoring her. Rescue as in identifying with her.” He said she burned all the bridges he built for her and stated Cynthia Morgan once questioned his value in her life.
“Cynthia Morgan looked me in the eye and asked me ‘what the f**k have you done for me?'” On May D
Jude Okoye also addressed the allegations made by Akinmayokun Awodumila better known by the stage name May D. Following the allegations by Morgan, May D whose brief stint with the defunct PSqaure ended in 2012, stated that while he was with the label he was poorly treated. He claimed that he slept on a carton in the boy’s quarters which he shared with their driver. In his reaction to the allegation, Jude said he spent over a hundred thousand dollars on May D. According to Jude, trouble began after he gave May D a contract and the singer came back after 2 weeks stating that there were no incentives in the contract. Jude said May D had demanded a car and an apartment in Lekki despite the fact that the singer was still up-and-coming and had not done any shows. On Psquare Jude also chipped in on the bad blood between him and Peter. He stated that the only reason he decided to speak up on the Cynthia Morgan allegations was because Peter had involved himself. Jude Okoye stated that the reason PSquare broke up was because Peter didn’t want his (Jude) involvement in the group. When asked if he could bring back the group together again, Jude said no and that “there is nothing humanly possible for me to do to bring Psquare back”.