Some football-loving Nigerians are rallying round to save the life of former Super Eagles defender Sunday Eboigbe. Eboigbe, nicknamed ‘The Destroyers’ in his playing days, is said to be suffering from stroke in Benin City, Edo State capital. He made over 58 appearances for the national team, grabbing a silver medal with the then Green Eagles at 1984 African Nations Cup in Abidjan, where Nigeria lost to Cameroun. He also picked another silver medal with the national team at Maroc ’88, losing the gold a second time to the Lions of Cameroun. Eboigbe remains a household name in Nigerian club football, having featured for prominent clubs including Bendel Insurance, New Nigeria Bank (NNB), Iwuanyanwu Nationale, Elkanemi Warriors and Abiola Babes between 1982 and 1993. The towering 6.6 ft tall central defender became one of the toughest footballers in Nigeria history following his hard tackles. He won the Nigeria National division one league as well as two WAFU Cup titles with the defunct NNB of Benin in the 1980’s. He also won Nigeria professional league with Iwuanyanwu Nationale of Owerri. The Guardian learnt yesterday that some football lovers, including ex-players and supporters club members are making frantic efforts to bring the ailing Eboigbe back to his feet again. One of those who reached out to Eboigbe yesterday was the National Chairman of the Nigeria Football Supporters Club (NFSC) Rev Samuel Ikpea, who gave cash gift to assist him during the lockdown period. The cash was presented to Eboigbe in his residence in Benin City by Sports General Admin, Joseph Isokpehi, on behalf of Rev Ikpea, who could not make the journey due to the ban on inter-state travel. The Nigeria Football Supporters club boss said he was deeply touched when he read about Eboigbe’s health situation. He called on other Nigerians to come to the rescue of Sunday Eboigbe. An elated Eboigbe and his wife thanked Rev Samuel Ikpea for the cash gift saying that the amount would go a long way in cushioning the effect of the COVID-19 lockdown.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .