Delta Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa (third left); Secretary to the State Government, Chiedu Ebie (right); the Commissioner of Police, Hafiz Ibrahim (left), monitoring the level of compliance with the inter-state lockdown at the Head Bridge Boundary of Delta and Anambra states…at the weekend. •Dismisses alleged influx of almajirai into Delta
Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at the weekend warned that all unauthorised vehicles found in Delta would be impounded, while the operator risk prosecution. During a visit to Alifikede, the town bordering Delta and Anambra and others linking the state with Edo along the Benin-Asaba highway to monitor compliance with the inter-state restriction ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus, the governor dismissed the reported influx of almajirai into Delta, stating the COVID-19 task force had been directed to meticulously inspect every vehicle coming into the state. Addressing reporters after the exercise, Okowa expressed satisfied with the level of compliance, reminded security agents and members of the task force that only vehicles carrying agricultural products and those on essential duties that should gain entrance into the state. Restating his administration’s seriousness at implementing the lockdown order, the governor noted: “I am aware that some persons were being moved from one part of the country to the other. The security operatives and members of the task force should be vigilant so as to detect unauthorised movements and stop them from gaining entrance into the state.” He added: “We have gone round to see the work the committee and some of our youths are doing in enforcing the inter-state lockdown. “There are certain protocols that have been allowed. Inter-state movement of goods and services has been restricted to agricultural products and in that respect, only such vehicles are supposed to be moving from one state to another. “But, most Nigerians will always want to do whatever they wish. So, we have had to ensure that our 13 boundaries with other states are well secured.” The Delta chief executive went on: “We have various security agencies at every boundary, and we have decided to add to them our community youths to help ensure that the processes set in place allow only those who are permitted by the order of the President or by the order of the state government to go through the state. “Every other vehicle is supposed to be turned back. We have come out today (Saturday) at the Head Bridge and the junction between Edo and Delta at the Alifikede boundaries. A lot of work is being done by the task force set up in these two places, and I am hopeful that this is same thing going on in the other 11 places.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .