 Victor Moses  The dream of former Super Eagles striker Victor Moses joining Inter Milan on permanent deal when football activities return to normal after the COVID-19 pandemic may not see the light of day. The winger may be dumped after his flop loan spell. The Serie A side is said to be reluctant to pay the £10.75m valuation placed on Moses by his English side, Chelsea. The Frank Lampard’s side is looking to sell Victor Moses, with Inter Milan interested in bringing in the 29-year-old winger, according to The Sun. However, the sticking point may prove to be the price. The Nigerian has struggled to hold down a first-team place while in Italy, making just seven appearances, mostly as a substitute.Moses has also had injury problems, failing to stay fit and not being a major part of Antonio Conte’s starting plans. It is understood Inter have made an enquiry to Chelsea and were told he would cost around £10.75m to seal a permanent transfer. But the Italian club would only be willing to pay around £6m due to financial constraints related to the coronavirus pandemic. However, Conte is a big fan of Moses and could ask his old club whether they can take him back on loan for the whole of next year.The ex-Liverpool ace has made just three starts and four sub appearances in a mixed campaign where he has failed to establish himself. His contract at Stamford Bridge runs until the summer of 2021, but he is not in any of Frank Lampard’s plans for next season. Meanwhile, Liverpool and Senegalese striker, Sadio Mane could prove to be the summer target of Real Madrid, with the Spanish side giving up hope of landing Paris Saint-Germain’s Kylian Mbappe. According to reports, Mane, who scored 59 goals in 118 appearances for Liverpool is admired by Zinedine Zidane as a replacement for Karim Benzema.In another development, Arsenal and Gabon international, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has become the latest Premier League star to swap football for F1 as he teams up with Lando Norris to take on streets of Monaco in virtual Grand Prix. Aubameyang will be taking tips from McLaren’s Lando Norris before the pair line up for a virtual Formula One Grand Prix around Monaco’s street circuit on Sunday. The half-distance race, with drivers competing from home on simulators, will be around a virtual version of the tight and twisty street circuit on the day the cancelled real Grand Prix would have happened. Both the Formula One and Premier League seasons are on hold due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Manchester City striker Sergio Aguero took part in the previous virtual Spanish Grand Prix, along with Real Madrid goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois and Barcelona midfielder Arthur Melo. AC Milan captain Alessio Romagnoli has also featured. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .