• Governor, Deputy Relationship Still On Ice Like his Edo State counterpart, Governor Godwin Obaseki, Mr. Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State is facing an uphill in his desire to secure a second term ticket from the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) for the October 10, 2020 governorship poll in the state.
 
The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had, two months ago, announced the dates for the Edo and Ondo states’ gubernatorial polls, outlining that while Obaseki and Akeredolu’s first terms will end on November 12, 2020, and February 24, 2021, respectively, the commission decided to release the dates pursuant to provisions of Section 178(2) of the 1999 Constitution and Section 25(8) of the Electoral Act 2010.  Ondo, Awaiting History’s Encore
FOUR years ago, Ondo State chapter of APC nominated the former National President of Nigeria Bar Association (NBA), Akeredolu, as its standard-bearer in a hotly contested and controversial primary.  Team Aketi’s Divided Partnership
THE challenges against Governor Akeredolu’s second term appears to be compounded by the perceived loss of camaraderie between him and his deputy, Agboola Ajayi, a development that opens a huge crack within the government.  The frigid relationship between Akeredolu and Ajayi apart, a source within the cabinet confided in The Guardian that the crux of the matter was that Governor Akeredolu reposed too much trust on his deputy by handing over the APC structure and entire South District to him.
 
The source disclosed that unknown to the governor, Ajayi, who was a former House of Representatives member on PDP platform, was never loyal to him (Akeredolu) but had been orchestrating plots to overthrow his boss. Ajayi was also accused of making himself too powerful in the government, thereby influencing the appointment of a large number of PDP stalwarts into the cabinet. According to the source, the deputy governor sponsored an adversary political group (Unity Group) within APC led by a former deputy governor and APC Board of Trustee (BoT) member, Alhaji Ali Olanusi, to destabilise the Akeredolu administration from inception. On what the deputy governor aims to achieve by that mischief, the source stressed that the imbroglio was ostensibly to clear the coast for Ajayi’s eventual emergence as APC candidate.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .