 Ojeih Jnr  The writer and researcher with core interest in viral and infectious diseases said contrary to reports from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH), the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) is curable. Ojeih in this online interview with The Guardian said his company’s drug would cure coronavirus under-14 days. Ojeih challenged the world to infect him with the coronavirus and he will cure himself under-eight days. The alternative medical practitioners said the West does not have the answer to the coronavirus since it has brought the United Kingdom (UK), United States (US) and Europe to their knees. He, however, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for accepting the herbal tonic from Madagascar, which has shone the light into herbal medicine. CHUKWUMA MUANYA writes. Do you really have a cure for COVID-19?
Yes, Iris medical foundation has a cure to the baby virus called Coronavirus. The truth is, most researchers if they diligently understand Coronavirus they will proffer solutions to it. It is not a difficult virus to treat as a matter of fact I refer to Corona as a baby virus. No virus is new. Man lives with virus day in, say out. When there is advancement in laboratory science and technology when a new cutting edge the diagnostic machine is invented a new virus is discovered. There is nothing new about viruses. Coronavirus is not a pandemic hence I authored a write up called ‘Coronavirus the Pandemic that Never Existed.’ Even though that article was for a few intellectual friends somehow it leaked, to the public and it went viral and while going viral, it was doctored, edited, and some other words were infused to sensationalize it words that were not mine. But in the end, the theme and core message was passed. Which is Coronavirus is not a pandemic. We need to understand what a pandemic means. The word pandemic means confusion chaos. What we have in Nigeria cannot be compared to what we have in the United States of America. For example in New York, we have a full-blown pandemic. With fatalities hitting almost 6,000. New York has been brought to her knees. Russia is not left out, Europe especially Italy and Spain are devastated. Thousands are dead. We have not up to 300 ascertained deaths from COVID-19 in Nigeria yet we say we are in a pandemic. We need to keep a cool head and deal with it. We have been fortunate but for how long? Coronavirus should not give our people a sleepless night. Iris Medical Foundation has a cure, a cure is far better and stronger than that of Madagascar. VENEDI ELIXIR is the cure to Coronavirus. Have you presented it to NAFDAC for listing?
Is it registered by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), yes it is. VENEDI Elixir was registered by NAFDAC as far back as 2001 when President Olusegun Obasanjo gave the late Prof. Dora Akunyuli, a marching order to regulate alternative medicine. She reached out to our late MD, Prof Paul Olisa Ojeih Snr., my dad, told her to start with Iris Medical Foundation, use our drugs and us as a litmus test in compliance and regulation. I need to make one thing clear, VENEDI Elixir is not a new drug, and it is older than my kids. Hundreds of thousands of people have used VENEDI ELIXIR in Nigeria and in the United Kingdom (UK) and in the United States and South Africa were Iris Medical Foundation has branches for over 10 years. It is on record that the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Otunba Gani Adams, went to South Africa and screamed when he saw VENEDI Elixir being sold in Tambo Mbeki International Airport. This is a verifiable fact. Otunba Gani Adams is still alive he can verify this. VENEDI is not a new drug people rely on it to treat viral infection complex drug-resistant viral infection. Coronavirus is not a match for Venedi Elixir. The outstanding quality of Venedi Elixir is that it is a broad-spectrum viral drug and it serves too as a preventive drug. As a matter of fact, our front liners involved in the fight against coronavirus need Venedi to boost their immunity and protect them. Have you used the drug to treat anybody with COVID-19?
Of course, we have. We follow the set guidelines set up by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH). We encourage every individual that calls us to go get their testing done and seek treatment from government-approved hospitals and we ask them to call the lines. Still they will insist on using Venedi Elixir. We follow a structured regiment.  Have You Done Your Test what are your symptoms. Some individuals will tell you, ‘I don’t have coronavirus. I just want to boost my immunity.’ Some will tell you, ‘I only have malaria and fever.’ But of course, we know they have it. Ours as lifesavers is to render help wherever we can. I have said it countless times the cure to most deadly disease is locked in nature, locked in organic drugs and pharmaceutical properties. It is locked in alternative medicine. What is your position on a plan by the FG to import Madagascar herbal tonic for use in the country?
Madagascar, a tiny island nation of 20 million people, has unfortunately blazed the trail in discovering a cure; this would have been Nigeria. I still believe our able government led by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, is not relenting on seeking an indigenous cure. That Indigenous cure is VENEDI ELIXIR from Iris Medical Foundation. Interestingly, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and NAFDAC are disassociating themselves from any cure claim. The DG said the agency has received only on the product that is claiming to be useful as adjunct treatment not cure. What is your take on this?
That is why do I call coronavirus a baby virus. I call it a baby virus because it responds easily to Venedi. I told a colleague to list four major viral diseases. He said Ebola, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Spanish flu. I told him to add coronavirus. I asked him what is the relationship between coronavirus and these listed diseases. He was confused I said now let us add Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS), tuberculosis and chronic bronchial infection. I told him all these diseases have a lot in common with corona. The sufferer of the mention diseases has similar symptoms to coronavirus- weakness, fatigue, pains, fever, chills, and malaria then difficult in breathing, which we call acute respiratory distress in medicine. These are similar symptoms to coronavirus, even in tuberculosis and asthma there is difficulty in breathing so why is the corona so special. Truth is people are taking the home remedy and their immunity fights off the virus. The WHO is a puppet organization. What cure have they invented? What groundbreaking research have they carried out? Of course, they will denounce Madagascar because the cure is from an African nation and not from the Western world. Of course, they won’t support Madagascar because they are not a world power. Still, Trump is supporting Madagascar. I learnt he sent them money to do more research. Madagascar has shone the light into the herbal drug, the same light Iris Medical Foundation has been shinning for over 35 years the same light that so many herbal practising healers have been shinning over the years. I keep saying it; there are better herbal experts in Nigeria far better than me, far better than Iris Medical Foundation. All they need is government support. Pharmaceutical companies in the West are coming to Africa; stealing our herbs researching in it, extracting the active ingredients and calling it an organic drug. We have communicated to the relevant authorities by staking our claim that we have the cure, and Venedi elixir is that cure we hope they invite us to tender the drug and run toxicology report on the drug and this has been done in the past. We are still willing to follow due process but the truth is this drug has been used all over the world the people using it are they, not humans. We applaud the Federal Government for going to Madagascar. It shows President Buhari is in touch with the grassroots. He wants this virus out as quickly as possible. Truly he is the father of the nation. A lot of people do not support this move, but what if you were in his shoes, you will definitely do the same. While the Madagascar drug is forthcoming, Venedi Elixir should be put to the test. Remember he who claims must prove it. Does it seem that the virus is so fatal in Nigeria compared to what is happening in the UK and US?
It’s on record people use ginger, lemon etc. and they get better it keeps the virus out of their system. My question is can you use lemon and ginger to fight Ebola? No. Can you use lemon and ginger to fight HIV/AIDS, SARS etc.? The answer is No, No, No. But people are using a home remedy to fight corona and they are successful that is the same virus we are being told it is a pandemic and has no cure. Pure lies. Corona is curable. Venedi Elixir will cure coronavirus under-14 days. I have said it let them infect me with coronavirus and see if under-eight days I won’t cure myself.  I cannot say same of AIDS or Ebola. The West is confused. President Donald Trump is confused. Head of the United States Centre for Disease Control (CDC), Dr. Anthony Fauchi is confused. Fauci, an immunologist, is a top adviser to the White House and the Department of Health and Human Services. I told him to forget chemical drugs and go back to Alternative drugs and pharmaceuticals. Boris Johnson is confused. Coronavirus has brought the UK, US and Europe to their knees. Help is not coming from the West. We commend, our government for the steps they have taken. The President has done well. We salute His Excellency the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his bold step in fighting the coronavirus. We applaud the NCDC and the DG, and all the front line workers fighting this baby virus. The NCDC are proactive; they are on top of it. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, we applaud him and encourage him. We will get through this. We in Iris Medical Foundation are here to support the government. Our vision is to put Nigeria on the world stage as having proffered a cure to coronavirus. We have the cure and that cure is Venedi Elixir, Mother Nature’s cure and gift to mankind. How did you come about the drug?
We came about the cure through the painstaking research carried out by Prof. Paul Olisa Ojeih in 1984 during his sojourn in Asia. In 1985, he integrated plants enzymes into an elixir. A very potent antiviral elixir; known today as Venedi. Same drug he used in Tanzania to treat a viral outbreak. Unfortunately, the raw materials are not sourced in Nigeria. It is sourced in India and Germany. As we all know the Germans have invested in herbal drugs they are ahead in research. They have been able to successfully integrate alternative medicine into mainstream medicine and the Commission E regulates Alternative medicine in Germany. What are the constituents of the drug?
The full constituent of Venedi Elixir cannot be divulged; it is a family secret that is kept secret and sacred but passed to all the children of Prof. Paul Olisa Ojeih. The grandkids too have the formulas. Coca Cola can never divulge their ingredients, sane with that of Venedi. If anything happens to me today there are close to eight Ojeihs inline steps in to continue the work. The drug has NAFDAC listing. This is what we keep saying. It is not a new drug. Madagascar created a new drug as a result of the crisis and went straight to administer it to patients. They rushed it. But unlike their drug, Venedi has long been in existence. What are your recommendations on how best to contain the virus?
We need to encourage our people to go for testing, maintain social distancing, wash our hands regularly and exercise regularly. We need to eat a well-balanced meal that will build our immunity and we need to do more research on alternative drugs because in the next 10 years there will be another viral outbreak deadlier than this and finally the government has nothing to lose but all to gain in trying out Venedi elixir.  In conclusion, I rebuke WHO for saying the virus might not go away, we might need to leave with the virus just like HIV. This is a fallacy. The cure to coronavirus is Venedi Elixir. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .