Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and its workers are at loggerheads over a 50 per cent pay cut. The pay cut, which was disclosed in a memo to the workers, caused displeasure among the over 12,000 employees, who protested against management’s decision. Specifically, workers unions yesterday issued the management a 24-hour ultimatum to convene an emergency meeting with their representatives to discuss the memo sent out on FAAN’s inability to pay the full month salary of May. After the payment of April salary, FAAN in a memo, informed the workers of the decision to pay half salaries in May, while assuring that the balance would be paid when operations and revenues improve. The memo signed by FAAN’s General Manager, Administration, M. D. Musa, blamed the development on the dwindling revenue due to the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that management might not be able to pay full salaries as from May 2020. But the Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and the Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP), in a letter addressed to the Managing Director of FAAN yesterday, said they were disturbed by management’s decision, despite an agreement with the unions that before any decision was taken, they would be carried along. The letter, signed by ANAP Secretary-General, Abdulrazak Saidu and his ATSSSAN counterpart, Frances Akinjole, stated that the move was a violation of their rights as workers and as unions. Meanwhile, a Federal High Court, Lagos has ordered Air France to pay N500, 000 damages as compensation to a Lagos State High Court judge, Mrs. Oke Lawal and her husband, Chief Bayo Lawal, over alleged breach of contract. Trial judge, Saliu Saidu, gave the judgment following a breach of contract of carriage by air suit filed on behalf of the plaintiffs against the Airline by a Lagos lawyer, Folabi Kuti. The plaintiffs claimed N30m as compensation for losses and delay in delivery of their luggage, as well as inconveniences they suffered as a result of the breach of contract. In a statement of claim Kuti filed before the court, the plaintiffs alleged that they boarded Flight AF3849 from Lagos to Paris on July 23, 2015 and from Paris to Florence on Flight AF1066. At the point of taking off in Lagos, they checked in three registered luggage, two belonging to the judge, while the remaining one contained personal effects of the husband and other valuables. However, on arrival in Italy on July 24, 2015, only two of the luggage was delivered, while Lawal’s luggage was lost. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .