  The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) said it recovered an unnamed accident victim hit by an Acura Jeep with registration number JJJ 460 CY which reportedly ran into a commercial motorcyclist from behind on the Ojota expressway inward secretariat. The yet – to – be – identified commercial cyclist, with motorcycle registration number AAB 201 WT, who unfortunately died instantly, had his remains bagged and handed over to SEHMU for further action, while his erstwhile passenger suffered severe injuries. Preliminary Report on the accident at ojota, inward Berger has it that, “Upon arrival at the incident scene, it was gathered that an Acura Jeep with registration number JJJ 460 CY ran into a bike on the expressway inward secretariat, Unfortunately, the biker man died instantly, while the passenger suffered severe injuries. “SEHMU was contacted for recovery of the commodity which was bagged and handed over to them (SEHMU) for further action. “The affected vehicle and bike with registration number AAB 201 WT were recovered and taken to Alausa Police Station”. Similarly, LASEMA Response Team in an operation at Oko filling inward Egbeda, recovered a truck with  registration number LSR 622 XN, loaded to capacity with toilet soaps that was involved in a lone accident. The lone accident which was attributed to mechanical failure (breaks), crashed into the median along the Oko filling road, inward Egbeda where it lost its contents which spilled onto the road on impact of the accident. In the operation concluded before midnight, LASEMA Response Team supervised transloading of the goods which enabled the accident truck be recovered from the median and the spilt products removed, thus setting the road free to resume vehicular activities. Preliminary Report on the truck accident at Oko filling inward Egbeda has it that, “On arrival at the scene of the incident, it was discovered that a truck with the registration number ( LSR 622 XN), loaded with toilet soaps was involved in a lone accident. “The immediate cause of the incident was due to a mechanical fault ( brake failure). “No loss of live(s) nor injury recorded. “Further investigation revealed that  another truck is on the way for trans-loading. “The truck had been driven off the median and reloading process in progress.
“Reloading completed. The truck recovered off the median, and driven off the road to a layby. Road now set free for vehicular activity”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .