– Alleges exercise may lead to massive job losses The Federal Government must comply with all relevant laws and policies guiding the establishment of agencies and parastatals that might be scrapped as recommended by Steve Oronsaye’s report, the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), has insisted.
 
The Presidential Committee on Rationalisation and Restructuring of Federal Government Parastatals, Commissions and Agencies, had in 2012, recommended the scrapping, abolition, mergers and reversion of some existing institutions to departments of ministries.  He was quick to point out that on the face value, the implementation of the report may portray an attempt to streamline bureaucracy and cut cost, cautioning that, “our past experiences with reforms aimed at cutting down bureaucratic cost are that they had always ended with job losses. Bureaucratic bloated cost in Nigeria is always on the side of recurrent expenditure. Unfortunately, in Nigeria recurrent expenditure has become synonymous with civil servants’ salaries and wages. The lie dubious political officeholders sell to the uninformed public is that government is spending a huge sum of its revenue on civil servants’ salaries and wages, whereas salaries and wages of civil servants are not the sole components of the recurrent expenditure of the government.”  Adeyemi opined that the factors responsible for the increase in the cost of public sector bureaucracy are not salaries and wages of civil servants.
 
His words: “With the exception of the recent minimum wage, which in real terms did not bring any significant increase in the take-home pay of public servants, there has been a freeze in employment and wage increases spanning several years. The reality is that there are continuous statutory retirements and death of workers without replacement. These are expected to bring down the real public sector wage bill.”
 
He identified corruption and bogus salaries and allowances of political officeholders as key factors responsible for the increased cost of bureaucracy.
 
He added that if the government must go ahead with the policy, its implementation must be transparent from the planning to the implementation stages.
 
“This can only happen by bringing onboard critical stakeholders, especially trade unions that represent workers in the affected institutions. Government has to show workers and their unions a concrete plan on how jobs of workers in the affected institutions will be protected within the framework of the implementation of the policy,” the union said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .