 Executive Director of UNFPA, Dr. Natalia Kanem  The report projected that the number of women who have been unable to access family planning risk unintended pregnancies, gender-based violence and other harmful practices and the number could “skyrocket” by millions. The research was conducted by UNFPA in collaboration with Avenir Health, Johns Hopkins University in the United States and Victoria University in Australia. Executive Director of UNFPA, Dr. Natalia Kanem, said, “This new data shows the catastrophic impact that COVID-19 could soon have on women and girls globally. “The pandemic is deepening inequalities and millions more women and girls now risk losing the ability to plan their families and protect their bodies and their health.” “Women’s reproductive health and rights must be safeguarded at all costs. The services must continue the supplies must be delivered and the vulnerable must be protected and supported.” Meanwhile, a Catholic monk and Director of Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories, Edo State, Father Anslem Adodo, yesterday said he has developed CVD PLUS for the treatment of the coronavirus. Adodo said the constituents are antiviral and immune-modulatory agents, which help to stimulate antibodies.In the statement addressing the pandemic and urgency for a cure following questions from concerned individuals, he disclosed that plant-based drugs were the best approach to the coronavirus disease considering that the drugs were easily produced, stored and distributed and could be handled by medical and non-medical personnel as they pose low contamination risk. Adodo explained that the Pax CVD PLUS contains herbs and active phyto-constituents with documented scientific evidence based on clinical reports of their efficacy and safety. Corporate Affairs Manager, Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories, Mrs. Bolanle Alabede, confirmed the statement and report on the new drug for coronavirus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .