• Another young man shares suicidal tweets after he lost his job A young man identified as Kelvin Rhima has committed suicide at Modinatu Street in Ogba area of Lagos State. The lifeless body of Kevin who works with a new generation bank was found dangling from a ceiling fan in his mini apartment by neighbours at about 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday. It was gathered that neighbours became worried on Tuesday evening when they noticed that Kevin hasn’t been outside since morning. Unfortunately, when they looked through the window, they found his body hanging on the ceiling fan. Immediately after the discovery, they invited policemen to break into the apartment. According to a neighbor, Barry Olarenwaju, “Kelvin was a calm person so we didn’t notice on time. When we didn’t see him outside on Tuesday morning, we felt that was his lifestyle, that he was sleeping inside, but when it was an evening we got worried because there was no padlock at his entrance to indicate that he had gone out. “When we tried to open the door, it was locked from inside that was when we began to bang on the door. By the time we went to the window, we saw him dangling and his tongue sticking out. From the look of things it was obvious that it was on Monday he died because the body had begun to bloat”. Another tenant in the building who spoke on the condition of anonymity said immediately we discovered the body, we raised the alarm, it was a battle before the police came to the scene to access the situation. “We went to Area G on Tuesday night to inform them about the situation they asked us to go to Pen Cinema division, which we did. Ironically, when the police came, they wanted to detain all the tenants, we had to pay N2,000 each so that we won’t be implicated in a matter we don’t know anything about. After which they still abandoned the body with the excuse that the mortuary was filled up. They only snapped pictures.” It was gathered that policemen from Pen-cinema who came to the compound to access the scene saw the suicide note that he wrote and addressed to his father and girlfriend. Meanwhile, Nigerians on Twitter yesterday tried desperately to get through to a man, with the Twitter handle @EmmilyEmmanuel, who tweeted a suicidal note on the platform. Yesterday morning, the Twitter user said he is tired and cannot “push again”. He asked people to tell his mum that he loves her as he revealed his plans to take his life.  Twitter users have reached out to him but say he isn’t responding. Those who have his number say he’s not picking his calls. He’s also not replying to his DMs. It would be recalled that a 50-year-old man, identified as Chukwudi Maduka committed suicide at Umuezu-Ore Umuana village in the Uhuahia North Local Government Area of Abia State. The Public Relations Officer of the Abia State police command, Geoffrey Ogbonna, confirmed this to newsmen in Umuahia on Tuesday. Ogbonna said Maduka was found dead early on Monday morning in his one-room apartment. The spokesman said the man did not leave a suicide note, adding that the command had commenced an investigation into the incident “to possibly unravel the reason for the suicide.” Narrating the development, a resident of the area, Dave Maduakor, said Maduka set his apartment on fire before hanging himself, using the ceiling fan in the room. Maduakor said neighbours sensed danger when they noticed smoke coming out from the room of the deceased. “When they tried to open the door, they noticed that it was locked from inside so they forced it open and found Maduka’s body hanging on the fan,” Maduakor said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .