Albert De Rio | Image: Newzandar Former World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) star Alberto Del Rio has been arrested over the weekend for assaulting and raping a woman as well as threatening her child. Del Rio, 42, whose real name is Jose A. Rodriguez Chucuan was arrested on Saturday and charged with felony sexual assault. His bond was set at $50,000 after he was taken into custody at the Bexar County Sheriff’s Office in San Antonio, according to News 4 San Antonio. The woman accusing the professional wrestler presented police with photo evidence in the case, authorities said. The woman told police Del Rio had assaulted her multiple times, with the most recent incident coming on May 3, when he suspected her of cheating on him. In the incident, Del Rio grew upset when she denied the accusations, the woman said, at which point he repeatedly slapped her head and dragged her into a bedroom in his San Antonio home. The woman said Del Rio forced the woman to put on a dress and dance, and when she refused, he told her to stop crying or he would grab her son and ‘drop him off in the middle of the road somewhere,’ according to the affidavit. The woman said Del Rio used boxing straps to bound her hands together, and stuffed a sock in her mouth prior to sexually assaulting her, police said. The woman said he used ‘objects’ in the sexual attack – which lasted for hours – and punched at her back, according to the affidavit. The woman had injuries visible consistent with her account, police said. Rodríguez signed with WWE in 2009 and made his debut on their main roster the following year as Alberto Del Rio. In WWE, he became the first Mexico-born world champion in WWE history after he won the WWE Championship and the World Heavyweight Championship twice each. He also won the 2011 Royal Rumble and the 2011 Money in the Bank ladder match, making him the only professional wrestler to win both in the same calendar year. In professional wrestling he is the only man in history to have been WWE, (WWE) World Heavyweight, Impact World, GFW Global, AAA Mega and CMLL World Heavyweight Champion, making him an 8-time world champion overall. 