 Stethoscope  PHOTO: Getty images/millionsjoker  In a statement jointly signed by the ARD president, Dr Roland Aigbovo,   MDCAN Chairman, Dr Imuetinyan Igbinovia and the Chairman of  JUAC   Comrade Matilukuro Oluwakorede after their meeting in Abuja, the associations listed their grievances to include the non-payment of salaries, short payment of salaries, discrepancies in all the tax deductions, especially among the staff of the same grade level and steps. According to them, others issues bothers on the outrageous increase in tax deduction due to migration into IPPIS in comparison to what they pay before, late payment of salaries and nn-remittance of third-party deductions as well as association/union dues and capitations, cooperative deductions and the likes. The group argued that the IPPIS payment platform commenced services since 2007 and therefore, it is expected that all these teething problems should have been corrected by now stressing that it is obvious that the platform is even worse with FCTA in comparison with other MDAs. They recalled that after a meeting with the Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila 30th April 2020 was given to FCTA as the deadline to resolve these issues. They said, “Following the meeting of FCTA Management with FCTA associations/unions representatives chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Mr Chinyaaka Ohaa, where he informed us of the management’s knowledge of the lingering IPPIS issues and the actions being taken to address these issues once and for all, we resolve that IPPIS and other issues connected therewith should be addressed on or before 31st May 2020”. “This timeline is being given due to the appeal by the Permanent Secretary and the promise of the quick and final resolution of the contentious issues. Which are payment of actual/correct salary as at when due and implementation of third-party deductions as well as dues/capitations, levies and cooperative contributions. Failure to address these issues on or before 31st May 2020, we will have no choice but to proceed on industrial action from 1st June, 2020”. The Associations appealed to their members to remain calm despite the difficulties they face in this present economic situation as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .