Femi Gbajabiamila PHOTO:Twitter Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila has the decision to oversee the affairs of the Presidential task force on Covid-19 saying it is in the interest of Nigerians. Speaking while inaugurating the House COVID-19 committee, he said the initiative was in line with the mandate of the lower legislative chamber. The Speaker directed members of the Committee to ensure that the operations of the Presidential Taskforce on Covid-19, are conducted with a view to international best practice. According to him: “Nothing defines a nation more than how its leaders and its people rise to the seismic crises that manifest, often without warning, and must be confronted and overcome one way or the other. “We now face such a defining crisis. And we too will face the judgment of history. It is in our hands to determine what that judgment will be. “The 18 man Committee we have come to inaugurate reflects the intention of the House of Representative to engage the executive arm of government in a partnership that serves the best interests of the Nigerian people as we join hands to confront and conquer the most severe challenge of our lives.” Continuing, he said: “Your role is to add value by serving as a link between the task force and the National Assembly, and with the Nigerian people whose interests we all serve, and to whom we are all answerable. “It is also your responsibility to ensure that those of our citizens; doctors, nurses and all the health workers on the frontlines of the fight against Covid-19 in Nigeria receive the full protection they deserve, and the benefits they have so honourably earned. “You have the rare opportunity to write your legacy in gold, and I am confident that you will meet that opportunity. I urge you to face this responsibility with a sense of urgency and the utmost integrity, rest assured of my support and the support of the entire House of Representatives.” Chairman of the committee, Rep. Haruna Mshelia said the committee will engage all agencies involved in the management of the pandemic with a view to ensuring that the gains are not lost post-COVID-19. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .