Borno state Governor Babagana Umara Zulum PHOTO:Twitter Governor Babagana Zulum of Borno state; has declared that the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic; is war situation requiring ‘supreme sacrifice’ to survive the invisible enemy.
Zulum made the declarations Wednesday in a statewide broadcast to the people at Government House, Maiduguri. He said there must be the solidarity of people and organisations to survive COVID-19 that claimed over a dozen lives in the state.
“In Borno, we have shown the much-expected resilience and perseverance just as we did during the decade long Boko Haram insurgency. “We had to completely suspend all our socioeconomic activities to remain safe at home during the insurgency that also claimed many lives and
property,” he said. Continuing; “The last four weeks have been a period of great trial for us in the state. “We lost some of our great elder statesmen and leaders, scholars and illustrious sons. “They include; his eminence the Shehu of Bama, Shehu Kyari, His Excellency, the former Governor of Borno, Alhaji Mohammed Goni, Galadima Modu Sheriff, Hon. Wakil Bukar Lawan, Goni Modu Kolo, Goni Habib amongst a few others. “We express our appreciation to all for the concern and solidarity in this our trying period. “May God in his infinite mercy forgive all their shortcomings and give the families the fortitude to bear the irreparable lost. While lamenting lockdown, Zulum said: “It has not been easy to find ourselves locked down in our homes under strenuous weather conditions and for most of us observing the Ramadan. “Most of our people are either peasant farmers, petty traders or menial workers that must go out on a daily basis to enable them to make purchases of basic needs of life.”
He warned that life will be unbearable for most of our people under a total lockdown condition. According to him, the situation is not easy even with the average and well-to-do in society.
He said that in Borno, the people have shown the much-expected resilience and perseverance; as during the decade long Boko Haram insurgency. While speaking on COVID-19 palliatives, he said: “We have put in place machinery for the distribution of food items as part of the palliative measures to cushion the effect of the lockdown policy,” adding that the response team led by Deputy Governor, Umara Kadafur, commenced the distribution and not to be partisan in the distribution of palliatives. On disease fight support, he said: “We’ve received support from the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Northeast Development Commission (NEDC), and other well-spirited organisations like Dangote Foundation. “We’ll continue to work with all Stakeholders in bringing succour to improve people’s lives; while we handle the threats of the infectious disease that claimed over a dozen lives. “We must salute all medical and health workers for the sacrifices and bravery with which they discharge their duties in saving people’s lives. “I specially commend the management of the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH) and the State COVID-19 response team for their good work,” noting that their shortcomings as alleged, will be addressed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .