• Asks N’Assembly to withhold NDDC budget Niger Delta Movement for Peace and Justice (NDMPJ) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to dissolve the Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). In a statement yesterday, the National Coordinator, Etifit Nkereuwem, called on the National Assembly to withhold the 2020 budget of the NDDC until the committee was dissolved. The statement read in part, “Niger Delta Movement for Peace and Justice is a frontline civil society organisation formed to articulate and defend the fundamental, environmental and democratic rights of the oppressed and marginalised people of the Niger Delta region. “Following the recent and worrisome developments in the NDDC, we believe that the IMC has failed to achieve its objectives and therefore should be dissolved. “We urge the National Assembly not to recognise the IMC henceforth because it is illegal, undemocratic and unacceptable. It should withhold the 2020 budget of NDDC until the president dissolves the IMC.” The group urged the federal lawmakers to liaise with President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure the immediate inauguration of substantive Governing Board of NDDC that was screened and confirmed last year by the Senate. “We appeal to the National Assembly as a democratic institution to carry out this national assignment with diligence and transparency, without fear or favour and in line with the laid down laws and procedures,” Nkereuwem the coordinator added. He enthused that the leadership of the National Assembly would expedite action on the investigation of alleged misappropriation of funds in the NDDC, and commended stakeholders and elders of the region, particularly the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), for backing the lawmakers in the probe, in the interest of the region and nation in general. “PANDEF as the umbrella regional body and the voice of the Niger Delta people under the able leadership of our respected leader, patriot and nationalist, Air Cdore. Idongesit Nkanga (rtd.) deserves commendation and support of our people. “We hereby appeal to our people to join PANDEF and other stakeholders to reposition the NDDC to enable it to achieve its mandate. “We equally solicit the support of all the stakeholders for the National Assembly as it embarks on this matter of urgent public importance,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .