 Philip working on a construction site in Jos  The corps member, who studied Statistics at the Federal Polytechnic Nasarawa, was seen carrying bricks and backfilling a foundation with wheelbarrow yesterday. He told The Guardian that his recourse to engaging in a labourer work is the only option available at the moment during this pandemic as today’s passing out parade brings an end to the phase of N33,000 monthly allowance from NYSC, popularly called ‘alawee’. “Life after service will be very difficult for us because of this coronavirus lockdown. I go to site to look for labourer’s job because the feasibility of the economy to consider us for employment at this time is slim and since there is interstate ban on travel, I have to start my hustle now before my savings is used up on feeding,” he said. He further stressed that after pondering for a long time on the questions like where will corps member go to and which employer would engage corps members who are done serving amidst the global pandemic, he picked up the gauntlet to embark on a street hustle that would keep his body and soul together for this period. “Naturally, I have said no to street hustling but when the thought of no more N33,000 struck and no job vacancies at this time, I felt since there is energy, I have to work. Although this work pays me N1,500 daily, which due to the nature of the job has affected my skin and body, I do not have a choice than to do it for feasible means of continuous survival”. Meanwhile, the head of Plateau NYSC Public Relations unit, Jennifer Laha, has advised all 2019 Batch B Stream1 corps members who have plans on returning for their discharge certificates to remain in their respective states till the end of the pandemic before returning for their certificates. According to Jennifer, the distribution of certificates would be divided into morning and afternoon session with the view of complying with social distancing rule as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the country. Corps members have also been advised to come with nose masks, as it would be a necessary measure to be considered before being attended to.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .