Some Adamawa residents have commended Governor Ahmadu Fintiri’s one year in office, describing it as the best to ever happened to the state. Those who spoke with our reporter hinged their positions on the hitherto insecurities, poor infrastructure and general maladministration characterising the state before May 29, 2019. According to a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Hamza Madagali, who recalled the poor state of residents at border towns and villages said, “within a year in office of PDP-led government, normalcy and brotherliness have been restored to warring communities where Fulani/herders crises forced inhabitants to seek refuge in IDP camps and other neighbouring villages. “Farmers who had earlier abandoned their ancestral homes have now returned following the proactive steps taken by the PDP government,” he added. “Let us put records straight, all Adamawa residents would recall with nostalgia that the former APC administration took the state back to the dark ages as it couldn’t buy even chalks for our schools; our children were sitting under the trees while those who couldn’t withstand the accompanying pains and pressure dropped out of schools. Whereas on resuming office, Fintiri declared state of emergency on education and other dead sectors. “Today, to God be the glory, Adamawa has become enviable in the education sector as the hitherto pupils have returned to schools; thanks to PDP’s free education and meals at schools, he said. Speaking in the same vein with The Guardian yesterday was the chairman, Rice Farmers’ Association of Nigeria (RIFAN), Mr Stephen Maduwa who categorically stated that Fintiri has set the benchmark for good governance. He said Fintiri’s government rescued his members from ceaseless herders’ attack, stating that RIFAN lost no fewer than 200 members to such hostility. “We thank the governor and security agents for their efforts at restoring peace and confidence in our people and the state because before now, the level of farmers/herders’ clashes were too destructive, we lost several of our members to the ceaseless clashes but now, since Fintiri came on board, we have not lost anybody,” he appreciated. In its own assessment, the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) in the state hailed Fintiri for prompt salary payments. While opening a new petrol station executed by the union, the chairman, Rodney Nathan hinted all that Governor Fintiri promised to promote teachers that have served over 10 years.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .