Kebbi Deputy Governor, Sama’ila Yombe-Dabai, says plans are underway to distribute free face masks to residents, to curtail the spread of Coronavirus in the state. This was contained in a statement by Abdullahi Musa-Yalmo, Chief Press Secretary to the deputy governor, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Birnin Kebbi on Saturday. He said the deputy governor, who is also the State Coordinator of COVID-19, disclosed this while receiving a brief from the Kebbi State Task Force Team on COVID-19 on their activities in his office in Birnin Kebbi on Friday. The state coordinator urged  the task force to redouble efforts in discharging its legitimate responsibilities with a view to curtailing the spread of the dreaded disease across the state. He, however, commended the task force for a job well done and encouraged them to intensify commitment toward fighting the menace. The deputy governor urged stakeholders  to create  more awareness on the virus through  sensitisation on preventive measures to contain the pandemic. “There is need to intensify efforts on the importance of hand washing, social distancing and personal as well as environmental hygiene. “Let me reassure that the state government under the leadership of Sen. Abubakar Atiku Bagudu will not relent in supporting all activities that will curtail the spread of the pandemic across the state,” he said. Earlier, the State Chairman, Task Force Team on COVID-19, Alhaji Ja’afar Muhammad said the committee was at the deputy governor’s office to intimate him on its activities . Muhammad, who is also the State Commissioner for Health, said the committee was working hard to inform, educate and enlighten the public on dangers of Coronavirus. He said activities of the committee also included; contact tracing, sensitisation and mobilisation in public places among others. The commissioner urged all and sundry to cooperate with the committee and report persons suspected to be infected, to the authority for immediate and appropriate action. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .