  Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has expressed deep solidarity with the brave health workers of Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH) who, in the course of saving other people’s lives, contacted this COVID-19 deadly disease. Also, sequel to poor compliance by people to the COVID-19 precautionary measures by Ondo State government, Akeredolu has imposed stricter measures and granted health workers more incentives to work effectively. The governor, who spoke during a weekly media briefing at the state Government House, shut down all markets across the 18 local councils of the state due to recent four additional cases, making 13 positive cases. He said: “Both the driver who carries samples to test centres outside the state and the two casual workers in the wards took the highest risk in helping their fellow human beings. They are our heroes. “To live in service of humanity in preserving social existence and continuity is perhaps the greatest sacrifice for mankind. These three individuals are junior workers in that establishment, yet their contributions are critical and very essential to all our operations to fight COVID-19. “They faced the daily risks of worst dimension with candour. At the end, they are infected with the deadly virus. I want their families and loved ones to know that Ondo State Government stands firmly with them and will walk with them through these difficult times until they recover and fully get back to their daily lives. “Their tribulation is our burden and their total recovery will be our joy. To further demonstrate our understanding and total commitment to supporting the frontline risk bearers, I have directed immediate absorption into the public service of the infected casual workers at the IDH.” “I have also approved that all health workers in the state be paid 50 per cent of their consolidated basic salary as hazard allowance. “Furthermore, all healthcare workers working directly in the isolation centre/treatment centre are to get additional 20 per cent of their 50 per cent as special risk allowance, they will also get a top-up lump sum from the funds of the PTF (amount yet to be determined).” Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Health and Chairman of Inter-Ministerial Committee, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro, has recounted the achievement made thus far by the state government. Adegbenro disclosed that 276 people had been tested, 148 contacts followed, 13 tested positive, three discharged, 10 active cases while there are nine deaths. The governor, who expressed dismay towards the breach on the social distancing regulations, especially in the major markets across the state, closed down daily market activities, saying: “Out of seven days in a week, the concession is however given for only two days of market activities to enable restocking of food items and beverages for families. The days approved are Tuesdays and Thursdays of every week. “This ban does not, however, affect corner shops and shop window outlets within residences. There is also a ban on a non-food item on parade on the approved days. “The main perishable food supply depot in each of the city centres in the state will only open for business on Monday, Wednesday and Friday every week.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .