To further deal with the situation in the nation’s insurance industry, operators have stressed the need to raise the adoption of healthcare insurance policy in the private sector as part of efforts to increase productivity in the country. Speaking to The Guardian at the weekend in an interview, Chief Client Officer, AXA Mansard, Mrs Rashidat Adebisi said: “We have initiated services in a bid to ensure customers are better equipped to scale through the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater for customers’ healthcare needs at every point in time”. “We are aware that the crisis is generating stress across the country, that is why we are striving to ensure relieve the stress on customers our entities, since the launch of the telemedicine service, we have received great feedback and hence our decision to open it to all customers as well as introduce Mental Health Support to help those that may require it to navigate the challenging period. She added the mental health support is available through AXA Mansard Health Limited. “The service allows all customers to virtually visit the hospital and see a doctor from the comfort of their homes through their phones, laptops or tablets. Customers are able to access a platform that connects them with licensed doctors who can consult, diagnose, prescribe medication and make recommendations on medical conditions and treatments. “Following any consultation via the telemedicine service, the customers are eligible to collect primary care medication (subject to limits) at any of their partner pharmacy, thereby ensuring they are not burdened with the financial requirements of accessing good primary care drugs. “All AXA Mansard Customers are also eligible to receive psychological assessment and support via our psychological assistance program over the phone”, she explained. Also speaking to The Guardian on the development, the Chief Executive Office, AXA Mansard Health Limited, Tope Adeniyi, said, “One of the lessons the ongoing pandemic has taught the world is that healthcare will always be topmost priority to every individual, irrespective of the age, colour or gender. Adeniyi, stressed that operators must therefore constantly strive to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater for people’s healthcare needs at every point in time. Indeed, the launch of telemedicine service as part of contributions to reduce the spread of COVID-19, according to the firm, is very much in line with the promise to ‘empower people to live better lives. According to him, the service will also help Nigerians reduce the risk of hospital acquired infections, help them align with social distancing guidelines and eliminate travel time to hospital. The health sector may become overwhelmed with the growing spread of COVID-19 virus, leaving patients with other health issues at risk of neglect. A policyholder in the industry, Babarinde Tunde, who spoke to The Guardian urged the Federal Government to ensure adequate funding of healthcare in the country and to make the National Health Insurance Scheme mandatory for all Nigerians. He stressed the need for a blueprint in the nation’s health care system and why health care delivery should be made a subject for national discourse. This, according to him, will make all stakeholders work assiduously to facilitate the desired growth of the nation’s healthcare. Tuned, called for concerted efforts to rescues the nation’s health care sector as the coverage of the health insurance scheme is still low in the country.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .