• Borno discharges 12 patients, awaits results of 22
• Plateau discharges index case, gets 17 new ones Ten patients have lost their lives in Katsina State due to coronavirus (COVID-19) complications. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which indicated this on its website yesterday, said 16 patients had so far been discharged after tests conducted on them returned negative. It, however, said 130 cases were still on admission, while the number of laboratory-confirmed cases stood at 156. The state has so far locked down 13 out of its 34 councils after cases of the disease were identified in the affected areas. The councils include Ingawa, Katsina, Daura, Rimi, Malumfashi, Batagarawa, Dutsinma, Mani, Jibia, Safana, Matazu, Musawa, and Kankia. In another vein, the Borno State committee on COVID-19 has discharged 12 patients while awaiting results of 22 others. This brings to 14 discharged patients by the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH). Confirming the discharge of patients on Sunday in Maiduguri, the Deputy Governor and Chairman of Committee, Umar Kadafur, disclosed: “Out of 12 discharged patients, six were released by UMTH isolation centre, while others were from Bulabulin Ngaranam isolation centre. According to Kadafur, more patients will be discharged this week. He, therefore, urged members of the public to adhere strictly to guidelines against the disease. Meanwhile, the index case in Plateau State, Hauwa Yakubu, has been discharged and reunited with her family after receiving treatment at the Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) where her test result was negative. Also, the state recorded 10 new cases of COVID-19, bringing to 17 the number of confirmed cases in the state. Friends and neighbours were celebrating with Hauwa at her residence in Dogon Karfe community for coming up with a clean bill of health at the end of the day as the survivor of the dreaded disease. She said the NCDC came after her immediately she was discovered to have arrived from Kano and she was thereafter moved to Heipang Testing Centre where she was confirmed positive by the medical team. Expressing gratitude to God, Hauwa advised those who have COVID-19 symptoms to own up in order to get help. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .