Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong is not pleased with the leakage of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) test results from a laboratory in the state. Disclosing in a broadcast that the results of the 19 contacts of the index case had been received as negative, he added: “Regrettably, the government discovered the unfortunate leakage of a test result conducted at the COVID-19 laboratory of the National Veterinary Research Institute (NVRI), Vom, which found its way to the social media. “This unprofessional conduct is being investigated thoroughly, and anyone found culpable will be dealt with accordingly.”He announced another temporary relaxation of the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the state, as all intra-state borders remain closed. He explained that there would be no inter-council movement during the temporary relaxation except for those on essential services. Lalong maintained that his administration would take pro-active measures to prepare the state for the worst in the fight against COVID-19, advising the citizens to adhere strictly to all basic hygiene regulations and social distancing rules. Ordering all citizens to wear face masks, he announced 8p.m. to 6a.m. curfew from today, exempting people on essential duties. The governor said the palliatives to cushion the effect of the lockdown in the the 17 councils of the state had started, warning that people should stop spreading unsubstantiated information about the distribution of the items, which is capable of misleading the public and putting them under unnecessary tension. According to him, the government is concerned about the impact of COVID-19 on the education sector of the state. To address the situation, he directed the Plateau State Universal Basic Education Board to commence the implementation of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) education initiative. Plateau Radio Television (PRTV) has started Mathematics and English lessons between 9a.m. and 11a.m.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .