 Beyond the Classroom Foundation  Raquel Daniel who is the founder of Beyond the Classroom Foundation is also a non-profit clarity coach. Her new book titled: Flow: A Girl’s Guide to Menstruation, is designed to guide the young girl through menstrual hygiene and positively embracing that which has become a part of her life. “I remember having my period for the first time, I wasn’t scared or confused, I knew exactly what was happening. Unlike other girls my age at the time, I was relieved. I didn’t think I was going to bleed to death. I can say for a fact, that I was prepared. “This was because my late father told me everything I needed to know about the monthly period and hygiene before I turned 10. Unfortunately, so many girls, especially those in rural communities, welcome their first periods with anxiety and very little knowledge of it. In my work with girls, I have seen how the lack of accurate information has negatively affected how menstruation is perceived.” Hence, through Beyond the Classroom Foundation, Daniel has interacted with young girls in various communities, learning about their fears regarding the changes that come with puberty. “I have had the opportunity to enlighten, educate and prepare these girls for the beautiful new phase of their lives and the endless possibilities that come with it through projects like Project Red Robots with which we have distributed sanitary pads to over 10,000 girls across Nigeria. “We have also partnered with Sanitary Aid Initiative and Abuja Global Shapers to provide 300 sanitary pads, 800 underpants and 500 facemasks to girls in an IDP Camp in Abuja and quite recently, we partnered with Socially Africa who raise over $4,000 which was to provide a supply of sanitary wares to women and girls in the communities we work with in Lagos State. “It is these experiences and a need to do more in changing the narrative on how menstruation is perceived that inspired this new book. It is a book that every girl can relate to. It serves as a guide to help girls navigate through the world of puberty. “I believe that with the right information, the fear and misconceptions surrounding menstruation will be abated and what better time to share this book with the world than World Menstrual Hygiene Day,” she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .