Gombe State Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya PHOTO:Twitter The Gombe State government has commenced the distribution of food items to 66,000 vulnerable households across the 11 local government areas of the state to cushion the effect of the COVID-19
Governor Muhammadu Inuwa Yahaya stated this flagged off the distribution Boh, headquarters of Shongom Local Government area on Thursday. The Governor, who was represented by his Deputy Manasseh Daniel Jatau, said the programme marks a statewide flag-off of the distribution of the food items to 66,000 direct beneficiaries. He said Pandemic has affected great powers of the World as such; there is so much need for the palliatives to the people in the state “The palliatives will cushion the sufferings of our people during this trying moment of coronavirus pandemic. “Since the President, Governor, Committee chairman was magnanimous in reaching you with this palliatives, I urged you to be magnanimous in sharing with your neighbours. Governor Yahaya said that the Committee led by the Emir will do justice in the distribution, adding that “Reason why we appointed him as the Chairman. He said the items were made up of donations received from the Federal Government and Northeast Development Commission, as well as items provided by the Gombe State Government. Also speaking the Chairman, State Relief and Palliative committee, Emir of Gombe, Alh Abubakar Shehu Abubakar lll said the committee came up with sub-committees to ensure that the items get to the intended beneficiaries and get all classes of people to whom the palliative are meant for are well captured and attended to. He assured the Governor that the palliative committee will ensure that the relief materials get to over sixty-six thousand less privileged households across the State. A total of two thousand seven hundred and ninety households in Shongom Local Government Area have each received a bag of rice and millet carton of macaroni, vegetable oil and salt. Earlier speaking the Secretary and Overseer of Shongom LGA, Alhaji Abubakar Adamu Kaltungo, said the palliatives will cushion the sufferings of the people during the trying moment of coronavirus pandemic. He also commended Governor Yahaya’s Government for prioritizing the welfare of the people, especially the vulnerable in the society. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .