 Joe Biden  Meanwhile, race-baiting is a potential political weapon for the Republican Party to use to fight the much favoured Democratic Party in the general election. This writer had earlier postulated the brilliant woman, Stacey Abram to be Biden’s nominee, but it looks dicey to predict her ticket to avoid a political miscalculation. There is a chunk of qualified candidates (male or female, black, white, or brown) in the Democratic Party who are quintessentially qualified to be the president or vice president of the United States of America. It is also imperative that Biden should be cognizant of the weaponisation of race by the Republicans as their potent divisive weapon to sway white voters in November. The white and black Americans have much to gain from any nominee from the plethora of women candidates in the Democratic Party. The Republican Party has used the weapon of race successfully in the past to polarize and further divide a blessed country, the United States of America. The weapon of division-race card should be the yardstick for which Biden’s choice is made to reassure the majority of the white people who are as intelligent as their black or Latino’s intelligent counterparts. As part of the team-Obama, Biden must open and use a potent chapter from the playbook of classic President Barack Obama. Biden is a very decent, compassionate, intelligent and experienced politician. He is also a quintessential person with decent family background. It’s pertinent to note this Yoruba-Nigerian axiomatic statement that says: “Every day is for the thief, one day is for the owners.” It seems the Republican Party has exhausted in playing all their political shenanigans. Race-baiting seems to be their last card. Their joker seems prepared to use RACE for a campaign towards the Fall. “Every attempt to taint the truth ends up tainting the mendacious liars, truth-destroyers, naysayers and people engaging in character assassination.”  – Yahaya Balogun. Karma is a phenomenon thing. Everything said during Obama’s administration by the mendacious Republicans about Obama was like a tsunami of political predictions. All their malicious allegations against Obama perfectly matched the unexpected inconsequential ‘one’ (currently in power) to come after Obama. History is bunk! Only the karmic prey and liars will be consumed by their lies and the judgment of history.You can’t give what you don’t have; these Republican members of the House know the truth, yet they’ve chosen to be pathologically mendacious on false – Fox news platform. The chickens have come home to roost. These mindless Republicans are doing a great injustice to the future of the Republican Party. Democrats must as a matter of urgency intensify and consistently air the compendium of lies told about quintessential Obama on the national television for the world to see. The exact things said about Obama are being replayed verbatim in the exact characters of the current leader of their party. Expectedly, Biden is adequately prepared and ready to take off from day one to begin to clean the swamp and stench oozing out of the Oval Office. The United States used to be a respected country with its stupendous leadership position in the world. It is sad to see American uniqueness and exceptionalism being eroded by a leader whose narcissistic behaviour is an existential threat to the unique democratic values of the United States. The Democratic Party must wakeup to write their own stories. According to Brené Brown: “When we deny our stories, they define us. When we own our stories, we get to write the ending.” The last few months ahead is a great opportunity to campaign vigorously to rewrite the current chaotic situation in the United States of America.
Yahaya Balogun wrote from Arizona, United States of America.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .