To ameliorate the impact of COVID-19 and oil price decline, Nigeria may require up to N10.1trillion worth intervention to improve the economy.
 
Specifically, the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG), in its Macroeconomic Outlook Update, titled: “COVID–19, Global oil price and the Nigerian economy,” obtained by The Guardian, estimates that combined government interventions should amount to seven per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP).
 
This, according to NESG, represents a financing gap of N5.6trillion, which must be closed considering the level of decay in the Health sector, coupled with the dominance of informal micro, small and medium scale businesses in the economy, that are in dire need of support.  For a low-middle income country like Nigeria, with a slow and fragile economic growth, over 100 million individuals living in poverty, and a high unemployment/underemployment rate at 43.3 per cent, we estimate that combined government interventions should amount to seven per cent of GDP.
  
Despite the challenges of borrowing, NESG noted that expansionary fiscal policy remains the optimal approach to revamping the economy. For example, an increase in government spending tends to increase demand for goods and services, which also increases output and employment. It added that Nigeria is faced with the dual problem of declining revenue and the absence of adequate savings either in the form of external reserves or fiscal buffers to finance such a huge gap.
 
NESG said the country needs Quantitative Easing (QE) in domestic and external borrowing to revamp the economy, adding that for the domestic, Government can issue domestic medium-to long-term bonds to raise capital, and for the external, it can secure loans from multilateral institutions such as the World Bank, IMF, International Finance Corporation (IFC), and African Development Bank (AfDB).  While this approach is considered the second-best to the more conventional monetary policy approach, quantitative easing can also impact exchange rate stability and possibly spike inflation.
      
With the outbreak of the coronavirus, economic activities in emerging and developing countries have been subdued due to lockdowns, movement restrictions, lower foreign investment inflows, and declining commodities prices for those that rely on commodities exports.  
     
Consequently, the IMF downgraded growth outlook for emerging and developing countries to -1 per cent in 2020, from an earlier projection of 4.4 per cent, with Nigeria, South Africa, Brazil, Mexico and Russia projected to have a negative growth rate this year.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .