IMSU VC urges authorities to consider students’ health, safety
The Non-Academic Staff of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU) has threatened to rebuff circular issued by any university authorities directing its members resume duties amid escalating Coronavirus pandemic. Reacting to a circular issued by Registrar of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Dr. Bola Adekola, directing all the staff to resume duties as from Monday, May 11, 2020, General Secretary of NASU, Peters Adeyemi, faulted the directive. In a letter with reference number NASU/UV/126/VOL.XII/88 addressed to Chairman, Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Adeyemi argued that such directive was contrary to the guidelines on gradual unlocking of the nation’s economy. “The national secretariat of NASU is of the opinion that the directive on Federal Government’s lockdown easing guidelines in respect of academic institutions and social engagement, which state that all schools should remain closed till further evaluation.’ “We, therefore, urge the PTF to prevail on the authorities of FUNAAB to respect the content of the Federal Government lockdown easing guidelines and stop them from implementing the Registrar’s circular asking all staff to resume for duty on Monday, 11th May, 2020 in the interest of the protection of the workers.” The NASU Scribe submitted that the circular flouts the Federal Government’s lockdown easing guideline. But the university said its circular was guided by instructions issued by the Federal and Ogun state governments on the lockdown. “Management of the university at its meeting of Monday, May 4, 2020 presided over by the Vice Chancellor, Professor Felix Kolawole Salako, reviewed the above in line with the one-week extension of the lockdown by the Ogun State Government which still restricted movement till Sunday, May 10, 2020 as it affects resumption of work at the university. “Management has therefore directed the resumption of administrative activities and re-opening of offices of the university with effect from Monday, May 11, 2020,” the circular reads. Meanwhile, as the Federal Government proposes to reopen schools after their closure due to outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, Vice Chancellor of Imo State University (IMSU), Professor Victoria Adaobi Obasi, has advised school managements to prioritise the health and safety of students. Obasi stated this when the state’s Commissioner for Education, Professor Bernard Ikegwonwu visited the university to inspect the ongoing Lake Nwaebere and other drainage projects at the institution. She stressed that institutions should ensure that stringent measures were put in place to safeguard students from contracting the coronavirus on their return to school and during their academic activities. Obasi pointed out that IMSU would take certain steps to compel the students to adhere strictly to precautionary measures aimed at preventing spread of the virus in their various schools and across the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .