President Muhammadu Buhari has expressed sadness over the death of Abubakar Shehu Lemu, the eldest child of Sheikh Ahmed Lemu. The retired director in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs passed on following a protracted illness. In his condolence message, Buhari said he deeply felt the family’s pains, adding: “I know what you must be feeling having lost the most senior of your children.” The president also condoled with the entire people of Niger State, while praying God to ease the pain of the Lemu family and grant mercy to the deceased. Similarly, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has commiserated with the family of Justice Garba Nabaruma, his friends and professional colleagues over his sudden demise. Until his death, Justice Nabaruma was the Chief Judge (CJ) of Yobe State. Lawan also condoled with the government and people of Yobe over the sudden passage of the judge who presided over the state’s judiciary for nearly a decade. This was contained in a statement by Special Adviser (Media) to the Senate President, Ola Awoniyi. “Nabaruma was an erudite judge and leader who worked assiduously to reform the judiciary in the state. He left behind an indelible mark not only on the state judiciary but also on the legal profession in general,” Lawan stated. He prayed God to forgive the departed his sins and grant him eternal rest. Meanwhile, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday presided over the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) meeting, where the power sector issues and comprehensive healthcare reforms topped the discussion. Significantly, NCP approved the preparation and presentation to the Federal Executive Council (FEC) a draft legislative instrument to enact the Health Sector Reform Bill and associated legislation. According to Osinbajo, the critical point is that the Buhari administration’s proposed reforms will ensure that several millions of Nigerians who can’t afford to pay for it would begin to receive efficient healthcare services once the new system takes off. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .