• Fulani community demand justice over destroyed property
A woman and her daughter kidnapped last week Thursday at Okpanam in Oshimili North Local Council of Delta State have been released after payment of ransom to the suspected kidnappers. However, the circumstances towards their release by the abductors remained hazy. Meanwhile, the Fulani community of Obodogba quarters has appealed for justice on their property allegedly razed by irate youths, urging the security agencies to properly investigate the razing of their hamlets and bring the perpetrators to justice. Some angry youths had gone on rampage and blocked the Asaba-Benin Expressway and were alleged to have destroyed property, stole money and killed one cow in what is believed to be a reprisal attack following the killing of two vigilante members, including the leader of Okpanam vigilance group, by unknown gunmen. But in a swift reaction, the President of Obodogba youths, Christopher Agali, has exonerated the youths of Okpanam from the mob action that led to the razing of the settlement in question, saying: “We are civilised people and do not believe in reprisal attacks. So, the Fulani leadership should look elsewhere for what happened to their settlement.” Meanwhile, leader of the Fulani residents in the area, Abubakar Haruna, had reportedly insisted: “Youths from the community invaded the camp to destroy our property on the ground that they were responsible for the killing of the vigilante members. Also, counsel to the Fulani residents, Mohammed Elunor, described the mob action as unfortunate, saying: “A petition has already be forwarded to the police to investigate the matter.” Elunor further stated that it was wrong for Okpanam natives to tag Fulani settlers as criminals, insisting: “It was a bogus allegation that kidnappers and killers were from the Fulani settlement. “It is quite unfortunate because there is no vicarious liability in criminal matters.” Efforts to get the Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, proved abortive as her phone numbers remained engaged and the short messages sent to her phone were not responded to as at press time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .