The National Union of Electricity Union (NUEE) and the Senior Staff Association of Electricity and Allied Companies (SSAEC) have lauded the management of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) over introduction of measures aimed at curbing corruption in the power sector. Speaking in Abuja, the two in-house unions of the TCN said the management has streamline procurement processes in the power sector, which has saved the country billions of Naira that would have gone into private pockets. The unions also called for a review of the privatization of power, saying the process, which led to the privatisation, is faulty. NUEE TCN council secretary, Monday Johnson also said Nigeria has not benefited from the privatization of the power sector despite several bailouts handed over to the DISCO. “The unions as critical stakeholders think that the Federal Government should revisit the privatisation of the power sector. This is because since the sector was privatised, provision of electricity has not improved significantly. Government also believe that Nigerian are not getting value at this point and that is why it has continually given bailout to the distribution companies. With all the money that has gone to them, what do we have to show for it as a country? The unions believe it is better for the government to take a second look at the processes and see what can be done differently for the benefit of the power sector,” he stated. However, he commended the management of the TCN for terminating the appointment of former General Secretary, Mr. Chris Okonkwo. Johnson alleged that Okonkwo brought tension to bear between the workforce, federal ministries and agencies and failed to live above board which was counter-productive. He said: “Okonkwo has created serious tension between TCN management and the workforce, between TCN management and the two in-house unions, TCN management and the Nigerian Police Force, between TCN management and the power and Labour Ministries to mention a few.
   
“The entire workforce in TCN are happy and elated with this latest development. We hereby urge management to ensure that Okonkwo is made to refund all payments of salaries paid to him from the period of expiration of his appointment to serve as deterrent and to prevent future occurrence of such act.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .