NCFRMI Deputy Director of Planning, Research and Development, Mama Edet presenting Personal Protective items to one of the Refugees at Ogoja, Cross River State, while the representatives of UNHCR and the State Emergency Management Agency looks on The National Commission for Refugees Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) has distributed various Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) items to refugees in Ogoja, Cross River state to fight the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Distributing the items to the refugees on behalf of the Commission, Federal Commissioner, Senator Basheer Garba Mohammed said the items were distributed to help the refugees improve their personal hygiene and to protect them from the ravaging coronavirus. In a statement signed by the Head Public Relations, Abdul Onu said three settlements namely Adagum, Adagum 3, and Ukende respectively benefitted from the items which include facemasks, hand sanitizers, soaps, and buckets. Mohammed, represented by the Deputy Director, Planning Research and Development in the Commission, Mrs. Mama Edet said, “the refugees have become part of us, we have to do everything possible to protect them.” A representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in Ogoja, Mr. Mulugeta Zewdie commended the Commission for the timely intervention which he said would surely impact the rising number of refugees positively, adding that a total of 18,891 refugees benefitted from the items. He stressed that UNHCR as the global body charged with ensuring the wellbeing of refugees worldwide would continue to partner the Commission towards achieving a common objective, stressing that over 70,000 refugees were in Cross River State. Some of the beneficiaries who benefitted from the donations at the camp were full of gratitude to the Commission and the Federal Government for the kind gesture and promised to make the best use of the items. Also, a team of officials from the Commission and its partners also inspected facilities in the settlement to determine areas where intervention would be necessary. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .