There has been an outpour of congratulatory messages to the newly appointed chief of staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Ibrahim Gambari who replaces the late Abba Kyari. Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation announced Gambari’s appointment at the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja. Gambari resumed in the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday and participated in the FEC meeting presided over by the President Buhari. Congratulating Gambari, former Nigeria vice president Atiku Abubakar is hopeful that the Kwara State-born chief of staff will utilise his skills in serving the country. “Congratulations Professor Ibrahim Agboola Gambari, CFR on your appointment as Chief of Staff to Buhari,” Atiku tweeted on Wednesday. “It is my hope and expectation and those of millions of Nigerians that you will deploy your varied skills garnered over the years in the service of our nation.” In his congratulatory message, former Senate president Bukola Saraki describe Gambari as a decent man, a cerebral academic and disciplined diplomat. Saraki, a former governor of Kwara State, believes that his fellow statesman “is coming in with the necessary pedigree that will help him to do well on the job.” “I have no doubt that he will succeed on this onerous assignment. I urge all Nigerians to give him all the support that he needs to perform in office.” Kwara State governor Abdulrasak Abdulrahman said Gambari’s appointment as the Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari “is a befitting development that is rooted in dedication, loyalty, and history.” Prior to the official announcement which came on Wednesday, Emir of Ilorin, Gambari’s hometown, in a statement on Tuesday evening thanked Buhari “for appointing Professor Ibrahim Gambari as his new Chief of Staff.” The Resident Representative to Nigeria for the United Nations Development Programme Mohamed Yahya also congratulated Gambari on his new appointment on Tuesday. “I Congratulate Prof. Agboola Gambari former UN Under-Sec-General and a true PanAfricanist, for his appointment as the new Chief of Staff to Pres @MBuhari,” Yahya tweeted. “Looking forward to forging partnerships that will continue to support the achievement of Nigeria and Africa’s devt agenda.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .