Following the intensified offensive and military onslaught against armed bandits and other criminality in the Northwest and North Central parts of the country by the Nigerian military, there are mountain concerns and phobia from different quarters that bandits could move to other States of the federal. To this effect, the military High Command, Thursday assured that proactive measures are being put in place to ensure that armed bandits will not escape from states where the armed forces and other security are conducting various operations at the moment, to other states. The military said all current operations are in synergy with the ongoing operations in the North West to tackle interstate movement of armed bandits and other criminals within the North West and North Central zones. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Defence Headquarters, Major General John Enenche who disclosed this at a press conference yesterday in Abuja, said air assets have also been deployed to cover Kaduna, Niger, Nasarawa and Kogi states. Enenche said “There are worries from some quarters in the North West and North Central parts of the Country that armed bandits could escape from states where the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies are conducting various operations at the moment, to other states. “In this regard, the High Command of the Nigerian Military hereby assures all concerned that proactive measures are in place to handle such occurrences. “I am to affirm that, the Armed Forces of Nigeria is totally committed to tackling all the security challenges in the country until normalcy is restored. Hence, the public is requested to continue to provide credible information to the Nigerian Military. According to uom, troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria operating in various theatres across the Country recorded tremendous successes from 6 to 28 May 2020. “In Operation LAFIYA DOLE, several members of the Boko Haram Terrorists/ISWAP (BHT) fighters and senior commanders were neutralized and their logistics facilities, gun trucks and other structures destroyed as well as recovery of weapons. Within the period under review, a total of 188 BHT/ISWAP fighters were killed and several others suffered various degrees of gunshot wounds with narrow chances of survival. This is in addition to several others killed in air bombardments. The troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE also rescued several civilians – women and children, who were abducted by the terrorists. The total number rescued within this period is 236. The victims have undergone medical checkups and treatments at our health facilities. “In Operation WHIRL PUNCH during the period under review, 19 armed bandits were killed in Benue and Taraba States. The gallant troops also carried out a raid operation on a criminal hideout off Zaki Biam and Katsina-Ala highway where a notorious armed robber Terugwa Igbagwa alias Orjondu was killed. “Troops also recovered large cache of arms and ammunition within the period under review. The killing of Orjondu has brought great relief to the good people of Benue State and some parts of Taraba State. He was the mastermind of various civilian deaths including kidnapping and assassinations. Equally, notorious militia leader Gana narrowly escaped with injuries when his hideout was raided. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .