President of the Senate Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan PHOTO: Twitter The President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan yesterday expressed concern over the danger posed by the high rate of out-of-school children still prevailing in the country insisting it is unacceptable for the 21st Century Nigeria. Lawan stated this in his message to celebrate with Nigerian Children on their day. This was contained in a press statement that was signed by his Special Adviser (Media) Ola Awoniyi and was made available to The Guardian in Abuja yesterday to mark the children’s day. Lawan noted that the Day was set aside to highlight the realities of children in a society with a view to promoting their well-being and happiness now and for the future. He explained that despite all previous efforts by the Nigerian authorities to increase enrollment of school children Nigeria is still heavily burdened with a high number of out-of-school children a situation which he said portends grave danger for the country. The Senate President said the surest route to a happy and fulfilling future for our children is to provide them quality education and healthcare and to protect them against all forms of abuse. Lawan said it was this realisation that led the Federal Government in 1976 to introduce Universal Primary Education, which in 1999 was expanded to the Universal Basic Education, and also to enact the Child Rights Act in 2003.
“I want to use the opportunity of this occasion to assure our children that the National Assembly is fully aware of the challenges that they face and will continue to work to guarantee them and our country a better future. “I also call on the authorities at the sub-national level who have not done so, to domesticate the Child Rights Act for the sake of the future of our children,” Lawan said. The Senate President called for collaboration between the Federal and state governments in comprehensively addressing issues relating to the plight of Nigerian children. On the part of parents, Lawan urged them to dutifully play their own role in providing the immediate needs for their children, for the future peace of the children, parents and the country. He felicitated with the Nigerian children on the occasion of the 2020 Children’s Day. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .