In what seems to be a weekly occurrence, suspected herdsmen have again attacked Yelewata community in Guma Council of Benue State and killed two women, while injuring five others. The herders were said to have stormed the community on Saturday after their earlier attempt to attack a man on his farm was thwarted, as they met stiff resistance by some youths in the area. Consequent upon the weekend attack that claimed the lives of the two women, The Guardian revealed that fear gripped residents of the community, resulting in many fleeing the area for safety. Confirming the killing of the two women on phone to newsmen, the Chairman of Guma Council, Anthony Shawon, condemned the heinous act and called on security operatives to rise up to their responsibility of protecting lives and property. Shawon narrated how the herdsmen had attacked a resident of the area on his farm and inflicted serious machete injury on him. In the effort to rescue one of their own, some youths in the area had wounded some of the herdsmen, which infuriated them for a reprisal. The council boss added that the herders, however, mobilised and returned on Saturday with deadly weapons, which caused most of the men to run away leaving behind the two women who were unfortunately shot dead. His words, “I have heard that the herdsmen said one of their persons who sustained injury in their previous attack died and that was why they returned for reprisal.” He noted that the military had imposed curfew on the area recently because of such attacks. “When the last attack took place few days ago and a woman and her husband were killed, soldiers came and the sector commander decided to impose three days curfew on the area,” he said. According to him, the wounded persons in the community were taken to a clinic in Daudu for treatment. The herdsmen had few days ago attacked a neighbouring community and killed a pregnant woman with her husband, The Guardian authoritatively reports.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .