The Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria (LGAN) has become the latest sports body to succumb to the threats of the rampaging Coronavirus, which has disrupted all social and economic activities worldwide. Recently, their male counterparts, Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN) joined the rest of the sports world to halt suspend all competitions pending when the COVID-19 threat would abate. And during the week, the LGAN joined the train, suspending all open and other tournaments till further notice. Lamenting the effects of the pandemic on golf, Ladies Golf Association of Nigeria LGAN President, Susan Cole-Kotas in a statement said with “the current and foreseeable economic backlash, social distancing brought about by this Pandemic, LGAN have thought it necessary, therefore, to put on hold All Opens and Tournaments till further notice as we closely monitor situations”. She added, “hosting of Ladies Open Championships are based on sponsorship, and with the COVID-19 pandemic, we are not able to move around to source for funds; in fact, we had promises from a couple of companies who believe in associating with the growth of golf for women and children but then the economy is on the way to recession, they are just at the verge of survival and that means the outlook is bleak”. She prayed that the post-COVID-19 situation would not be too bad for the development of the game considering several periods of golfers’ inaction nationwide. “Also because of travel ban all over the world, we were slated to attend the All African Challenge Tournament Ladies from March 29 to April 4, but after vigorous training and planning it was put on hold. “Also, Lady Golfers from other countries who would normally have been here with us or we with them cannot come.” She disclosed that Nigerian ladies were invited to Uganda in March, “but the tournament was postponed. Definitely, all these will have a great adverse effect on the progression and development of the game, especially on the path of the amateurs that needed a constant play. “Outside that, with the new social distances rule we can’t converge at the clubhouse and this also destabilizes what was the norm. Hopefully, I believe in the nearest future, things will come back to near normal and we will be able to pick up and start golfing again.” Susan Cole-Kotas disclosed that she has been coping and trying to maintain her fitness level through physical exercise, adding, “we are lucky in Port-Harcourt that the Phyton Golf Club, until the lockdown down, allowed members to come in play and leave immediately. “The downside is we can’t use caddies, so we have to push our carts. The first few times was difficult,
but with time, we got used to it, but I had to change my golf bag for a small convenient one. “With the lockdown, I have a putting mat which I use to practice my putts; I do a bit of weight and plenty of walking.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .