Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike yesterday announced that no part of Rivers State would be under any lockdown from today following the cancellation of the proposed lockdown on Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt local councils of the state. Besides, he hinted that the state government had commenced an investigation into the alleged outbreak of coronavirus in Bonny Local Council where some persons, who complained of loss of sense of smell, taste, stooling and vomiting, had died. “Our team of medical personnel led by the Commissioner for Health has visited Bonny Island and collected samples from suspected cases for analysis and immediate intervention should the results indicate the outbreak of the virus in the area, “the governor said. Wike, in a state-wide broadcast yesterday, however, said that there would be the imposition of 8:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. curfew in the 23 local councils of the state with effect from June 2, 2020, till further notice. The governor, who stated that government would re-enforce the decisions on the continuous implementation of measures, such as the closure of all land borders, including all exit and entry routes into Rivers State to human and vehicular traffic, except those on essential services and duly exempted, said the state task force and the security agencies had been directed to arrest and summarily prosecute any person seen on the streets or any other public places without wearing face masks. In addition, he warned all banks, motor parks, hotels, restaurants, shops, business centres, shopping malls and offices to continue to maintain physical distancing and enforce the wearing of face masks in their premises, insisting that all bars, beer parlours or drinking joints, night-clubs, viewing centres, open markets and cinemas and markets shall remain closed until further notice. He urged churches and other religious gatherings to comply with the existing advisory on physical distancing, initiate temperature checks and enforces the wearing of face masks during their activities. Wike reiterated that 60 per cent of coronavirus positive cases recorded in the state were connected with oil firm workers, stating that the state government has initiated a meeting with all the major oil companies to work out strategies on how the trend could be stopped. He stated that the government was also investigating the rumored or suspected outbreak of the coronavirus at Bonny Island. He further revealed that intelligence has intercepted a clandestine plan by some criminal elements led by one Bobosky to cause security breaches in the state by instigating violence and burning down of churches in Khana, Eleme, Gokana, Tai and Oyigbo local councils of the state. He, therefore, implored all residents to be vigilant and report all suspicious characters and movements in their localities to security agencies. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .