The Indian High Commissioner to Nigeria, Agree Abhaya Thakur has commended the Federal Government efforts to contain COVID-19 in Nigeria. He made the commendation during an on-line awareness meeting on COVID-19 organised by the Oriya Samaj Association of Nigeria (OSAN) in association with SABHA, an association of Indian Community in Nigeria, Rotary Club of Lagos, Palmgrove Estate and Rotary Club of Lagos Island. It was held at the behest of a respiratory expert, Professor (Dr.) Narayan Mishra, who was also the Guest Speaker at the event. Thakur, who expressed concern over the safety of Nigerians in spite of government’s efforts to contain spread of the virus, advised Nigerians to be calm and observe preventive measures and government’s directives, adding that the presence of the virus in the country does not mean instant death. The envoy also expressed concern over the Kano situation, saying based on investigation carried out, it would soon be brought under control in line with the assurances received. He charged Nigerians to realise that this was the best time to assist fellow Nigerians who are out of job or lack basic necessities of life. Thakur applauded the Federal Government for building isolation centers in Abuja in addition to provision of other preventive requirement as he looked forward to further co-operation and bilateral relations between Nigeria and India. At an interactive programme he advocated that the first and the best preventive measure Nigerians should observe are social distancing, frequent washing of hands under running water, hand sanitisers, which should not preclude taking good food, resting properly and exercising regularly. He cautioned against smoking and excessive intake of alcoholic drinks, as they were capable of aggravating their health challenges that could eventually make them test positive for COVID-19. He also admonished high blood pressure and diabetic patients to treat the ailments on time and not allow the virus to compound their problems, stressing that individuals, who have malaria should visit the hospitals to know if it is just malaria and not jump into conclusion that they have contracted coronavirus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .