US-based music duo of two brothers, Row and Zuwa Agbonayinma known as Roze have thrown open a challenge worth one thousand dollars for their new single and video titled “Ileke”. The single and video “Ileke” dropped on all digital platforms on Tuesday, May 5, 2020 and it has since been enjoying positive reviews from all and sundry. The title of the song “Ileke” simply means the African waist beads but beyond that, the duo explores the function of the ornament in relation to a woman’s bum, the sexuality and how it defines and accentuates it during dance. To drive home their point that the “Ileke” is more than just an ornament to beautify the waist and bum of the African woman Roze has threw a challenge hash tagged #ilekechallenge with a one thousand naira bounty to the good for the winner or the winners. According to the brothers who are signed to U and I Music, owned by their father, “This challenge is to give everyone an opportunity to showcase their talents; such as using the song “Ileke” to be creative, with dance videos, art, drawing, skits, comedy, TikToks, duets etc. (videos with creative content). The best content creators will stand a chance to win all or part of the money. The challenge will be going on from Tuesday (May 5th) till Sunday (May 9th), and may be extended if need be. We will decide the five best content creators and the fans will get a chance to pick the three final winners. The 1st winner gets $500, the 2nd winner gets $300 and the 3rd winner gets $200. During the period of selection, creators and fans will be able to tag as many people as they want to vote for them in the comment section.” When the duo did a cover of Mavin’s Rema’s “Beamer” in April the ovation for them was so loud even Don Jazzy himself had to commend them for the effort. Some people who saw the cover on Instablog9ja begged the Mavin’s boss to organise a remix of the song, collaborated between Rema and Roze. Ileke, according to the brothers, was produced with the help of an artiste known as Lez. While Mekoyo produced the single Clarence Peters shot the video.