The Nigeria Volleyball Federation (NVBF) has donated palliatives to all the states’ associations to reduce the effects of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic on athletes. The Chairperson of the NVBF Welfare Committee, Professor Florence Adeyanju, said the palliatives became necessary due to the difficulties volleyball players are passing through in the COVID-19 pandemic period. The Professor of Human Kinetics, who presented the palliatives on behalf of the NVBF President, Musa Nimrod, enjoined athletes to continue keeping all hygienic procedures to remain safe ahead of the sporting season.  “The President of the NVBF, who is also the Zonal Representative of the North West on the board, decided to extend the palliatives to other zones because of the hardship experienced by players who are the main actors of the game,” she said. Commending the NVBF for coming to the aid of the states associations, chairman of Kwara State Volleyball Association, Bashorun Bankole said the gesture would go a long way to lift the spirit of the players. He added that the palliative would help in strengthening the ties between the federation and the grassroots players. “When I received the palliatives from the federation, I swung into action by informing my vice-chairman about the kind gesture. “The intention of the association is to add some amount of money and buy some foodstuffs in order to distribute to players who have no means of income during this COVID-19 pandemic. “We must commend the federation for remembering the 37 states associations’ members when all chips are down,” he said. Also applauding the NVBF, the Sokoto State Volleyball Association, Umar Samba, said, “On behalf of Sokoto State Volleyball Association, I want to say a big thank you to the NVBF members, especially our zonal representative on the board, Musa Nimrod for their initiative during this lockdown. “Most of the players have been finding it difficult to fend for themselves during this lockdown, but this palliative from the federation will go a long way in alleviating hunger.” A board member, Aminu Kolore, and NVBF General Secretary, Alhaji Adamu Maikano said the federation’s leadership would continue to support the growth, development and, most importantly, the players of the game. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .