The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has won 10 out of the 18 local government councils’ polls. This is the result in the first set of result announced yesterday by Chairman of Cross River State Electoral Commission(CROSIEC) Dr Mike Ushie as results from 8 council areas were still being expected. PDP also won 107 councillorship seats out of 196, leaving the All Progressives Congress (APC) and three other political parties that contested with no seat so far.
On the chairmanship position, the PDP won in Calabar Municipality, Bakassi, Akpabuyo, Akamkpa, Etung and Calabar South, Ikom, Obubra, Odukpani and Yakurr in landslide. Results from Biase, Abi, Boki, Ogoja, Obudu, Yala, Obanlikwu and Bekwarra council areas were still being  expected as at press time. The CROSIEC chairman, speaking before announcing the result, debunked insinuations from some quarters that the entire results were written and compiled by the electoral umpire, insisting that CROSIEC had done its best to conduct free, fair and credible polls. Ushie had earlier commended all including the media who contributed to make the exercise a huge success as there was no case of violence or ballot snatching. He said, “the issue of pulling out, boycott was not there as people and five parties participated. I must say that as early as 8am our materials were everywhere out there except were we had logistic delay which is normal like a vehicle break down but I must say that we got it right”. “You know we in Cross River State we are used to this local government election, so we were determined to have the election in line with Independent National Electrical Commission’s (INEC) protocols and guidelines. “We ensured that before you enter the venue you must have your face mask, someone is positioned to give you the hand sanitizers to use and tap buckets provided for you to wash your hands. We observed queuing and never allowed people to cluster to make sure that personal distance was observed. The next thing now is the declaration of results and from 10am on Sunday we will start to declare the results”. Recall that a faction of the party led by Sir John Ochala had pulled out of the race saying the processes were not proper but on the other hand, the Etim John faction participated in the exercise though did not fill candidates in all the 18 Chairmanship positions and the 196 councilorship positions in the wards. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .