Bollylomo | BellaNaija Nollywood actor Gbolahan Olatunde better known as Bollylomo was a few days ago called out on social media of being a rapist and sexual abuser. The actor alongside Brymo was accused of sexual abuse of women on the microblogging platform Twitter. A Twitter user had taken to the platform to accuse Brymo of rape. After she shared Brymo’s accusations, she went on to share several messages she received in her DM saying Bollylomo too had raped several ladies and his victims will speak up when they are ready. She tweeted screenshots of several ladies recounting their alleged experiences with Bollylomo and how he sexually assaulted them. Reacting to the allegations leveled against him, Bollylomo has described the accusations as being false and statements made to defame his person. The actor in a statement issued on his Twitter page yesterday demanded that the accusations be put to an end while also warning his accusers. His statement reads in part; “Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, A Twitter user yesterday, came out to falsely accuse me of sexual assault/rape, and has proceeded to make several false, derogatory and defamatory statements against my person. This is not an allegation I take lightly and as such I have contacted my lawyers and given them a full brief on the issue, hence the reason for my delayed response in addressing these false allegations. While I do not wish to further fuel this flagrant falsehood, as this is not the first time these kind of allegations of rape/sexual assault has been leveled against my person which I didn’t address as it was an unsubstantiated attempt to smear my name. Considering the severity of these allegations, I deem it pertinent to state that I, Gbolahan Olatunde aka “Bollylomo”, categorically deny these allegations and state that I have never raped any person. I would like to indulge the accusers to come forward, make formal reports throught the appropirate channels. Any further attempt to smearmy person with these allegations will be met with the full weight of the law. To everyone else, I thank you for your continous support as always.”