Lagos State Judiciary on Monday recorded the first virtual court session to deliver the judgment of one Olalekan Hameed who was sentenced to death by hanging. Justice Mojisola Dada of Ikeja High Court gave the judgement during the virtual session via the Zoom app. Hameed, a driver, was earlier arraigned on march 6, 2019 for the murder of one Mrs. Jolasun Okunsanya at her residence on plot 83, Owukun crescent, Alaka estate, Surulere. The court session which included the judge, defendant, his team of counsel, the prosecution team led by the Lagos State Solicitor General Shitta Bay, and all witnesses participated in the session remotely from different locations via the zoom app. The convict handed was arraigned on a two-count charge of murder and stealing on charge no ID/9006C/2019. He pleaded not guilty to the charges, following which trial commenced. “The only money I took was N1000, any other money I don’t know about it. I did not kill Mrs. Jolaso Ogunsanya,” Hameed told the court. The prosecution called nine (9) witnesses and tendered exhibits including the Coroner’s report, stolen N97,500 and $117 recovered from the convict. Justice Dada said the prosecution received testimonies that Hakeem was the only one with the deceased at the time of death after which he was also seen scaling the fence of the deceased’s residence. “It is also an established fact that although the defendant went to the house of the crime to steal, the surprise of the deceased stumbling upon him led him to not just pushing the deceased, but actually strangulating her in a bid to keep her from crying out,” Justice Dada said. “The case is clear… I have not found any contradiction with the evidence of the prosecution witness that can be deemed material or weighty enough to cast any doubt on the case of the prosecution against the defendant in this case… The facts of the case are incompatible with the innocence of the defendant but rather his guilt on the two counts. “The defendant is hereby found guilty of this count two of murder and is hereby convicted as charged and accordingly sentenced to death. “The sentence of this court upon you, Olalekan Hameed, is that you be hanged by the neck until you be pronounced dead and may the Lord have mercy upon your soul. This is the virtual judgment of the court.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .