 Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel PHOTO:Twiitter  This was contained in a press release, signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Ekerete Udoh and made available to newsmen in Uyo yesterday. The governor called on Akwa Ibom children to remain focussed on their education, noting that, “the future is yours to secure and keep. “That is the reason we have invested huge resources in ensuring that our children are made ready for the globalized world of the 21 Century where skills, talents, passion, ability to think outside the box and sharp execution of tasks are the underlying requirements for success. ” That explains why we have not relented in ensuring that our children are kept busy even with the Covid-19 pandemic through our hugely popular “School on Radio” programme on AKBC. “We have endeavoured to provide a conducive learning environment complete with tools that will enhance,  deepen and expand the frontiers of knowledge. We are also maintaining rigorous training of teachers to bring them up to speed with modern approaches to teaching. With this year’s theme, “Promoting Girl Child Education for Sustainable Development”, the governor said that such has captured a critical component of the Pet Project of Her Excellency, Dr Mrs Martha Udom Emmanuel- her untiring interest and passion in the growth and development of the girl child through Family Empowerment and Youth Re-orientation Path Initiative (FEYReP.) ” The holistic education of the girl child, from instilling the right values, distilling her sense of self and identity, forswearing unwholesome tendencies that may negate her future and growth,  and the infinite faith in her capacity to rise to the faith of her greatness without fear of limitations based on her agenda are important element that we have emphasised”, he added. Udom, therefore stressed that “Let me again use this opportunity to urge our children to stay away from anti-social tendencies such as cultism, and rather focus on their education and other ennobling pursuits. I wish you all a Happy celebration”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .