Phatiah Just when it seemed Nigerian pop music genre is flooded with immoral lyrics, though with popular street lingo and danceable African beats, fast rising singer Fatiah Kayinsola Ojediran, otherwise known as Phatiah, has come with something different. Already, the new kid on the block has dropped fresh and conscious singles, thereby signaling a new era in the country’s pop music culture. Just 11-years old, Phatiah is gradually carving a niche for herself, using her pop music uniquely to innovate the timeless subgenre traditionally called conscious music. The result is the conscious Afropop, which is already winning her fans and admirers for using her arts to entertain her audience and as well advocate positive upbringing and better future for young people. Trending currently on airwaves on select radio and TV and online channels including YouTube, Phatiah’s newest single Leaders of Tomorrow comes with an entertaining video, with the artiste pleading passionately with the governments to provide quality and adequate care for children. “I made Leaders of Tomorrow with the aim of drawing humanity and stakeholder attention to the plights of children in a way that meets the objectives of the United Nations International Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF),” she disclosed. Remarkably, the video was directed by award-winning video director Olalekan Buari aka Unlimited LA, who is highly rated and reputed for working with mainly prestigious and promising stars, including Wizkid, Burna Boy, Don Jazzy, Olamide, Pasuma, Skillz, Sean Tizzle, and D’ja. Earlier, Phatiah had dropped distinct entertaining singles Education and Love Is All We Need, urging governments, parents, school authorities and the society at large to prioritise positive upbringing of children in order to ensure a good future for them. Perhaps, right from her cradle, Phatiah, who’s daughter of a music entrepreneur father, has been enjoying a close tutelage both in her academic and artistic careers. Her father, Abiodun Ojediran from Ogun State, is a United Kingdom returnee, who now runs a record label, Climax Records, where his daughter is a signee and a protégée. With a wide and deep understanding of the music industry developed through its world-class style of managing and promoting its notable artistes, Climax has charted Phatiah’s career path and performances through carefully selected and endorsed concerts such as the prestigious Lagos State Music Fiesta, Epe Recreation Centre; One Lagos Fiesta; Music and Message Concert, Freedom Park, Victoria Island; Star Kids’ Awards; 2008 Nigeria Independent Party, Lagos; and the Lagos State University Music Concert, where she thrilled her fans alongside concert headliner and rave pop artiste, CDQ. Also recently, Phatiah manned the mic and rendered the national anthem, flagging off the roll of events at the 2nd term public inauguration of Alhaji Yahaya Bello as the Executive Governor of Kogi State. Currently the brand ambassador for real estate company Numatville, she’s already attracting brand endorsement contracts and winning awards. Always excited to inspire excellence in her peers and youths, Phatiah enjoys visiting orphanages and donating gifts to the less privileged, including the Modupe Cole Memorial Childcare Treatment Home School, Akoka, Lagos. Born on August 26, 2008, Phatiah is currently a JSS 2 student at the reputable Starfield College, Lagos. When not honing her skills at playing piano, she is reading, dancing or playing basketball. She’s never discouraged by her average height for the high-net game but rather thrilled to excel herself and her peers at every opportunity she is given by her parents or guardians or at school or by her music managers. 