A SOCIO-ECONOMIC organisation in the South-South region, United Niger Delta Energy Development Security Strategy (UNDEDSS), has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that Federal Government lives up to its responsibilities in the region and ensure that the current unjust practices being perpetrated against the zone are stopped. However, the UNDEDSS commended the anti-COVIDE-19 pandemic initiatives of the Federal Government, Lagos and Rivers states, and especially the Aliko Dangote-led corporate bodies, doctors, nurses and all health workers, for their selfless inimitable services, without which Nigeria would have long collapsed. In an agreement reached after its quarterly general meeting yesterday, its Secretary-General, Mr. Tony Uranta, said the entire Niger Delta region was happy that the Buhari-led administration is yet to show sincerity in remediation of the region, starting with the clean-up of Ogoniland. “The Presidency has not exhibited equity and fairness by not giving COVID-19 stimulus funds to states of the Niger Delta commensurate to the region being the source of majority of funds in the national treasury. We implore the President not to be swayed in the resolve to cleanse the Augean stable of corruption in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) as it is currently doing via the Interim Management Committee (IMC). “As we welcome the new Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, we anticipate a better working relationship between the Presidency and the Niger Delta region.” The group said it had determined to get the Federal Government to honour its own end of the bargain before 2020, including clean-up of Ogoniland, the more robust funding for the Maritime University in Gbaramatu, full installation and commissioning of the currently-abandoned mega-Dry Dock (biggest in Africa!) in the region, the completion of the sanitising and full funding of the NDDC and the demilitarisation of the Niger Delta, among others. While the group applauded Buhari for not allowing the self-aggrandisement-driven campaign against the ongoing NDDC’s audit sway his resolve that the IMC cleans out the years of corruption in commission, it said there must be an end to the years of raping the Niger Delta with impunity, saying: “We know that even the Senate putative scheming against the committee is not altruistic, but is rather born out of the losing of humongous rent collections by certain premier officers of the National Assembly.” The National Assembly must stop blackmailing the IMC.”The UNDEDSS, therefore, promised to turn its x-ray on corrupt governance in the region’s state governments this year, saying: “Until Nigeria learns to systemically embrace independent monitoring and evaluation, corruption will never stop in government ministries, departments and agencies.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .