Governor Godwin Obaseki PHOTO: Twitter All progressive Congress (APC) Governorship aspirant, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu has faulted the claim by Governor Godwin Obaseki that the use of the direct mode of primaries could lead to the spread of the Coronavirus infectious disease in Edo state. Speaking to reporters shortly after procuring the expression of interest and nomination forms at the party secretariat in Abuja, he said Obaseki’s position on the issue was untrue and ridiculous. Ize-Iyamu maintained that it is the indirect mode of primaries which the Governor is disposed to that would create the enabling environment for the spread of the infectious disease in Edo state. Ize-Iyamu who was flanked by key stakeholders of the party from Edo state said the indirect primaries mode will lead to the congregation of delegates who would be forced to commute from the length and breadth of Edo state to participate in the selection of the party flag bearer, thereby rendering the ongoing campaign against the disease fruitless. Ize -Iyamu stressed that doing the direct primaries mode endorsed by the national secretariat of the party translates to restricting voters to their respective unit and wards which is in line with the preventive measures against the spread of the infectious disease. He alleged that Obaseki may have been uncomfortable with the direct mode of primaries because the process cannot be easily manipulated compared to the indirect mode of primaries. he added: “In any event, is the general election going to be indirect? Definitely not. The reason why they want the indirect mode is that it can be easily manipulated, and you can buy delegates easily. Under the Indirect system, you will know who is winning as votes are being counted and you can easily scuttle it. But in the indirect system, even if you want to create violence, you can’t do that and get away with it in the entire wards of the state.” Ize -Iyamu who was a member of the APC constitutional drafting committee in 2014 argued that the decision by the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole led national working committee (NWC) to settle for the direct primaries mode was in line with the party constitution. He noted: “There is no need for that controversy. under the party constitution, we have three modes of choosing our candidates which is either through consensus, direct or indirect. The Constitution is quite clear on this. The organ empowered to conduct the primaries is NWC. The state cannot dictate to the NWC on this matter. “ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .