 Lamptey  So far, what effort is your office making in collaboration with the Nigerian government to support poor or local women during this critical time, especially as many are unable to meet their daily needs?
OUR efforts as the United Nations is outlined from the very beginning, we don’t want to respond as 19 different agencies of the UN, we want to respond as one UN to support the government and one of the first things we did was to pull resources together to support the federal government to actually procure health equipment such as PPEs (personal protection equipment) and so on.  Researchers have claimed that more men than women are dying from COVID-19. Does the UN Women have a similar view and what impact will this have on women, if it is true? 
If you look at the data globally, it’s not even; the UN women has a global data monitoring system called women count that has been looking at how the virus is affecting women and men differently across the world. It is true that across the world, men are dying more from the virus than women. We are trying to get the data of deaths in Nigeria right now and we are working with our WHO colleagues on that because right now the data we have in Nigeria speaks to how many women have been infected versus how many men have been infected.
 
In terms of infection rate, it is true that more men have been infected with about 68 per cent versus about 32 per cent women. This is the data that we get. But in terms of the deaths, we are also waiting to get the disaggregation of data on that but from our global review. It is true that more men are dying globally but the picture is not even across all countries because there are some countries where more women are infected than men yet even in those countries, more men are dying so there is a lot I think that still needs to be studied to understand why it is that the virus seems to be killing more men than women.  Has the UN Women put in place any guide or template for women to overcome the pandemic? 
As UN Women, both at the global level and also in our country offices, we have strongly underlined the need to look at the gender impact of COVID-19 crisis and have designed a number of approaches in the face of the pandemic. One of the first things we did in Nigeria at the start of the crisis here was to actually elaborate a brief on the gender implications of the COVID-19 in early April, shortly after the lockdown began. So, at the UN, we were able to mobilise and stress the need from the very beginning to address that. The gender brief we put out, for instance, addresses issues of women and equal access to information. We know that women don’t access information in the same way as men and a lot of the channels women use to access information whether it is in the market in the church or whether it is in their cooperatives and so on, a lot of those avenues have been closed due to the lockdown. We recognise that access to information is very key, so ensuring that there was a specific intervention for women to access information was one of the first issues. We also had underlined the fact that women were in the frontline as caregivers and as majority health workers and as such, that needed to be recognised and effort needed to be put in place to ensure that they are protected from contracting the virus and that they also have to access to testing opportunities. The other point we also highlighted was violence against women. We were seeing what was happening in other parts of the world such as Asia, where this health crisis had hit earlier. We know that the report coming in pointed to a rise in gender-based violence. So we ensured that the brief that we put out underlined the need to protect women and to ensure that services that are available to women should they become victims of gender-based violence, should also be considered as essential services during the lockdown.  What protective attitudes should women adopt to stay safe from COVID-19?
In terms of protection, women like men have to adhere to the instructions and the guidance that we are receiving from the World Health Organization (WHO) and from the National Center for Diseases Control (NCDC). We must ensure that we maintain hygiene and we must ensure that we wear our protective gear whenever we are out, such as the facemask and also observe the social distance. I think those are the fundamental protection attitudes that we have to have. Of course women by virtue of the fact that they are the majority of the frontline in the health sector with 70 per cent, and even when we go out to the supermarkets to procure essential items during this period, we get exposed. So the people who are most exposed are women. And then when we come back home, even when people are not so well, it is women that have the burden of responsibility to maintain a healthy home. It is important that women have access to information and as we learn more about this virus and how it is working, women would then be able to understand any change or development in their health. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .