The Enugu state police command said on Saturday that it has arrested one Okechukwu Chinedu Kenneth (39) who allegedly dupes people on a false claim that he works in the office of the state Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.
Okechukwu was among 16 other suspects  arrested  for various criminal activities that includes conspiracy, murder, armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearms, fraud and cultism in the state The Command said that six locally-made firearms with four live cartridges, 16 .9mm live ammunition, 2 cutlasses and one axe were recovered from the suspects. Enugu Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO) Daniel Ndukwe, (ASP,) in a statement, added that Okechukwu’s arrest followed series of complaints about his nefarious activities. He said he had continued to defraud  unsuspecting members of the public, including a Local Government Chairman on the guise of presenting their issues to the governor. Ndukwe disclosed that preliminary investigation showed that the suspect hails from Adaba village in Uzo-Uwani L.G.A. but resides at Agbani, in Nkanu West Council and reportedly lost his job at the State Ministry of Finance for alleged acts of stealing and fraud. He gave names of other arrested suspects as Ezeugwu Osita,16, Abonyi Chigozie (16), Ugwuanyi Stanley (16), and Isiani Ogechukwu (17). He said they were arrested for robbery at Opi, Nsukka and were armed with cutlasses, axe and had gained entry into a house at Ibeku, Opi-Nsukka and robbed the occupants of the sum of N22,000.00. “The suspects confessed to the crime and identified one Eneh Cyril who was also arrested, as the native doctor who arms them with charms”, he added.
He added that Uchenna Chukwuani (21) and others who used a one-chance Mitsubishi Commercial bus attacked and robbed passengers at gunpoint have been arrested. One Chukwuebuka Ngene (a.k.aUdo) was  also arrested in Agbani for the killing of one Okenwa Ifeanyi (Anyi Nature) on 2nd of February, 2016 during a cult war between Black Axe and Vikings Confraternities at Agbani, Enugu. He said his confession led to the arrest of one Obinna Chukwu (Little Johnny) his fellow Black Axe member, adding that one locally-made cut-to-size single barrel gun with one live cartridge was recovered. The Enugu PPRO disclosed that the Anti-Cult Unit arrested Ekene Emmanuel (Ifeadigo), whose age is given as 27  at Otukwu Village, Emene and recovered 16 rounds of .9mm live ammunition. He added that those who defrauded a cattle dealer at Garki Cattle Market Enugu, of the sum of N1.3m were among those arrested by operatives of the Command’s Anti-Kidnapping Unit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .