The political crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Cross River State is taking a different dimension as the state chapter of the party has dragged the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and three others to court.
 
On the other hand, the newly inaugurated executive committee members of Ward 3, Calabar Municipality, have suspended the state chairman of the party, Ntufam Edim Inok Edim, for misconduct over “his attack on the national chairman and other members of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) and for receiving a bribe of N150 million to release the exco list, which he (Edim) qualified as ‘fake.’ Using Pastor Otu Marshall, Mr. Terence Orok and three others (applicants), the party in the state in a motion ex parte Suit No. HC/15/2020 filed, dated April 29, 2020 at the High Court Calabar, presided over by the state Acting Chief Judge, Justice Maurice Eneji, secured an order of interim injunction “restraining the 4th Respondent (the state chairman) from inaugurating persons other than the claimants, particularly those listed in the letter with Ref. No. PDP/DOM/GF. VOL.2/20-387B of 26/3/2020, as elected officers of the 1st Defendant/Respondent at the Ward and Local Government levels of Cross River State, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice in this suit.”  They said the national chairman and members of NWC were labeled as demons, criminals and other unprintable names as contained in a video, in which “he declared that he will not carry out the instruction/directives of the NWC as contained in letter NO: PDP/DOM/GF VNOL.2/20-387B of April 26, 2020, and went further to inaugurate his own acclaimed ward and local government Exco from Obanliku to Bakassi Local Government Areas in Cross River State.” Recall that the National Assembly members, stakeholders of PDP from Cross River State, the state governor, Senator Ben Ayade, and state PDP executives have been at loggerheads over the ward and chapter congresses of the party in the state.
 
The NWC of the party had, in a letter signed by the National Organising Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu (rtd) dated April 26, 2020, issued a list of ward and chapter executives for the state and directed the state chairman, Edim, to swear them in on April 30. But that was not done as he said they totally disregarded the names making the rounds as “we don’t know any of them, never came to our party and did not pay any dues to us and we call on the national secretariat of our party to investigate the purported list and bring the people to book.”  Meanwhile, top party sources have declared the allegation by Edim as “wild, spurious and unfounded,” insisting that no money was given or collected from anybody to clear members for the ward and chapter inaugurations in Cross River State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .