• Okowa warns appointees against nepotism
Delta State Government, in collaboration with the Coalition on COVID-19 (CACOVID) and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), has inaugurated a new 100-bed isolation centre at NYSC Permanent Orientation Camp at Issele-Uku, Aniocha North Council of the state. Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Chiedu Ebie, stated during the unveiling of the facility yesterday that the centre would enable the state increase its capacity to handle more COVID-19 cases. Ebie, while thanking the private sector for their assistance and support to the state in the fight against the pandemic, disclosed that the establishment of the centre was sequel to the directive by the Federal Government to NYSC to make available some of its facilities nationwide for the management of COVID-19. “Delta was being proactive by not waiting for cases to rise beyond limits before increasing capacity to handle more cases. “We are indeed delighted that the state government has increased our capacity in terms of providing facilities for isolation and treatment of COVID-19 patients. I thank the private sector coalition for all it has done not just for this isolation centre, but for us as a state government,” he added. However, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, has charged political appointees in the state to be fair, equitable and shun nepotistic considerations in the discharge of their duties. While swearing in two new special advisers, Chief Godwin Ogadi and Chief Andrew Osawota, the governor charged the appointees to discharge their responsibilities in accordance with Section 196 (1) of the 1999 Constitution and work selflessly for the good governance and development of the state. Okowa said, “In the face of the most challenging moment in our contemporary history, we have nonetheless resolved as an administration to continue to do the needful to keep the wheel of governance running smoothly. Aside being long-standing party stalwarts, the appointees have distinguished themselves as strategic thinkers, astute administrators and capable leaders – essential qualities required for the office.” “As I have always said, special advisers occupy a distinct role in our modern democratic setting; they are needed for their expert policy inputs and ability to marry politics and policy to actualise the administration’s goals.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .