 Maikanti Baru  Northern States’ Governors Forum (NSGF)  also expressed shock at the news of  Baru’s death.
Plateau State Governor and Chairman of the forum, Simon Bako Lalong, said: “ Maikanti Baru was a thorough-bred professional, who distinguished himself in his career.
 
‘’’He contributed immensely to the growth and development of the oil and gas industry. He championed the implementation of reforms that left the sector more responsive to the energy needs of Nigerians.’’
 
Conveying the forum’s sympathies to the family, the people and government of Bauchi State, Lalong prayed that the almighty Allah will receive the soul of the deceased, forgive his sins and grant him eternal rest…” OTHER eminent Nigerians, especially in the nation’s oil and gas industry, also condoled with his family, describing him as an outstanding contributor to the growth of the sector. NNPC, announcing his death, said: “ Baru was a consummate Mechanical Engineer, who became the 18th GMD of NNPC from July 4, 2016 to July 7, 2019 before he died at the age of 60. The current GMD, Mele Kyari, expressed shock over Dr. Baru’s death, describing him as “a man of exemplary character and disposition.”
Executive Secretary of African Refiners & Distributors Association (ARA), Anibor Kragha described Baru as “a phenomenal human being, a leader, a scholar, a mentor, a teacher and an avid proponent of the Nigerian enterprise.” He said Baru was passionate about developing the nation’s human capital and enhancing its economic development. Kragha, who worked with Baru as Chief Operating Officer in charge of refineries, said Baru would be missed while asking God to comfort Baru’s family. Director of the Department for Petroleum Resources (DPR), Sarki Auwalu, said Baru contributed immensely to the growth of the oil and gas industry. Edo State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice and President of Nigerian Association for Energy Economists (NAEE), Yinka Omorogbe, said: “He was quietly efficient and very dedicated to his work. He was a good man and I’m sad that he will no longer be around to give wise and practical advice to the nation.” Chairman of Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN), Bank Anthony Okoroafor, said: “Baru was a great friend of the oil and gas service industry, who was available to listen, advise, resolve issues as they arose. We called him the “made in Nigeria Mantra king” because he believed and supported local content sincerely and religiously.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .