The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) yesterday protested against non-implementation of President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive to pay their three months withheld salaries. President Buhari had directed unconditional payment of salaries to lecturers, who have been on strike to protest against non-full implementation of agreements ASUU earlier reached with the Federal Government. Chairman of the University of Ibadan (UI) chapter of ASUU, Professor Ayo Akinwole, told The Guardian that it was important Nigerians knew that lecturers have always been paid through the Government Integrated Financial Management Information System (GIFMIS) domiciled in the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF’s) office. Akinwole stressed that a government that preaches the rule of law should learn to obey the laws rather than resort to forcible imposition of policies, adding, “This is democracy and not a military government.” In a letter to Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha through the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, National President of ASUU, Professor Biodun Ogunyemi, stated that members of the union found the back-door demand for BVN number by the AGF to pay the salary as violation of the President’s unconditional directive. In a bulletin sent to members, Ogunyemi stated that he was yet to receive any response to the protest letter to the SGF on the failure to pay lecturers as directed by President Buhari. Ogunyemi thanked members and their families for supporting the union on the struggle for revitalisation of the nation’s university system during the COVID-19 lockdown and non-payment of salaries. “Forceful enrolment of our members on IPPIS was the primary motivation for introducing BVN conditionality by some government agents, contrary to the presidential directive. “From information available across our branches, the marketers of IPPIS have failed in their plans. However, they may want to try again. So let’s be watchful,” he said. He advised Nigerians and academics participating in the COVID-19 intervention to adhere to prescribed guidelines and take responsibility for their own safety. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .