Former Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Technical Director, Kashimawo Laloko, has lamented the renewal of Gernot Rohr’s contract as Super Eagles coach, saying that the country still failed to realise that the ‘expatriates’ employed as coaches in the past used the nation to boost their coaching resumés. Rohr was recently given a two and a half-year contract extension by the NFF, following the two previous agreements he had with the country since his arrival in 2016 as Eagles’ manager. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Laloko wondered why the NFF should extend the Franco-German’s job when nothing tangible had been added to the senior national team since his arrival. “NFF has no moral right renewing Rohr’s contract in the first place. All the noise about Emmanuel Amuneke, Clemens Westerhof, Bonfrere Jo, when Rohr’s contract was about expiring were all lies. A new deal was already on the table for Rohr to sign. “The employment of Rohr is something we have to fold our arms and look. All I know is that Rohr is not a good coach. You don’t beg a coach to work. If a club or country says they don’t want you or there is an argument over you; a controversy sort of surrounding your employment, then it means that there is a problem. “Before the contract extension, I hear that Rohr told some people that some clubs were waiting to sign him. Which clubs are waiting for him? I have always asked what has Rohr won for himself in countries he had been a coach? The man is only using Nigeria to develop himself,” he said, adding that he had not heard before where a coach would be waiting for the football federation to send him on a course. “I don’t know what’s happening to us in this country. For example why would a coach be waiting to be sent on a refresher coaching course? Many of the foreign coaches we’ve employed in the past used us to get to where they want to be,” he said. He added, “The coaches we’ve had before like Westerhof, Bonfere Jo e.t.c. all begged for the Eagles’ job. The problem we have is that even those running our football don’t want good advice. The man heading the football federation particularly looks autocratic to me. He doesn’t want old people, but people he can step on and tell them what to do and they must do it. That is not good enough because we all serving this nation. “On top of this was that they even brought in Joseph Yobo to become Rohr’s assistant, someone, who has no training of any sort. Since 2012, CAF had ruled that nobody without a licence should sit on the bench of any national team. “That was why we persuaded players like Keshi, Amokachi and others who had played well for the national team to get the requisite certificate. If Rohr is not desperate, how come he agreed to take naira? This is pure desperation. “I hear he collects $50,000 a month; $50,000 to do what in a country where we’re struggling to eat. Is that sensible? I just wish him best of luck. But he should know that the Africa Cup of Nations would determine what would happen to him if he fails to win it,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .