There was tension and palpable fears in Egume,  Dekina local government area of Kogi State,  weekend, following early morning invasion of a Fulani settlement in the area by unknown gunmen leading to the killing of three Fulanis and nine cows. The Assistant Secretary of Mytti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, (MCBAN), Kogi State chapter, Mallam Ademu Abubakar, who spoke on behalf of the Association’s Chairman, Wakili Yusuf Damina, disclosed this to newsmen in Lokoja on Saturday. According to him, on the 14 of this month, which is on Thursday, at about 8am some gunmen heavily armed with guns and other dangerous weapons invaded Fulani community at Ofanwa Elubi in Egume and opened fire on the Fulani people and killed three persons on the spot while about nine cows were also killed during the deadly attack. He noted that many people were injured in the attack which lasted for several minutes, stressing that this was among several attacks on his people. “This was another attack on our innocent members who are grusomely  killed in cool  blood  on the 14th May 2020. The repeated killings of our people / members in igala land is becoming unbearable . “This time around they lunch the attach at our camp , they starting shooting at them without any offence at all. Those killed during the attack include Tine Idris, Fatu Idris and Abdulkareem Saleh. He mentioned that the attack was reported to the Divisional police Officer (DPO)  in Egume for prompt action adding that the DPO quickly organised his men and took the corpses to the station before taken them to the hospital. He also disclosed that during the last attack sometimes on the 10th  of March, 2020, the Kogi State Commissioner of Police, CP Ede Ayuba visited the fulani community where the incident happened and promised to apprehend the perpetrators that attacked the community. He therefore appealed to the state government and the the police authority in the area to rescued them from further attack. Meanwhile, the Kogi State Police Command, Public Relations Officer,  William Aya while confirming the attack on Saturday in Lokoja, said three persons and nine cows were killed during the attack on the said fulani community. He added that the Commissioner of Police have deployed fully armed men to the area to avoid further attack stressing that the command is already hunting those behind the attack. Aya added that normalcy has since been restored in the area, but however stressed that the command would continue to work hard to ensure that nobody takes law into their hands. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .