Chief Victor Effiom Ekpo, MD Cross River State Water Board A seven year old traditional injunction that restrained Cross River State Water Board Limited from distributing water to communities in Ogoja and some parts of the Northern Senatorial district of the state have been removed. The injunction which was placed on Water Board Blaster facility at Ndok junction in Ogoja Local Government Area was neutralised on May 27 by elders of the community following a peace meeting between the management of Water Board led by its Managing Director, Chief Victor Effiom Ekpo and Ndok Community Leaders. The injunction was placed seven years ago by the Ndok Community protesting against the bias of the government then in by-passing Ndok and few other communities to distribute water elsewhere but the community leaders had to remove the injunction to ensure the production and supply of portable water to the Community and it’s environ. Speaking at the courtesy visit to the Ndok leaders for the peace and reconciliation, Chief Ekpo thanked them for removing the injunction and called for partnership and collaboration between them and the board to ensure the provision of portable water in the area as the board is committed. He said, “we are here to make peace with you, we are going to make amends and keep to every agreement that will take place today, we are also here for the traditional injunction to be removed so that we can work and extend our services to the people of Ndok Community”. While stating that the board is committed to executing the order from the state governor, Senator Prof. Ben Ayade, to provide water for all citizens in the state, Ekpo stated that “on Wednesday and Thursday, our pipes will arrive from Calabar so that we start the pipeline work and within a month, we will supply portable water to your homes” and sued for an enabling environment and necessary support for free flow of work in the area. On his part, the Special Adviser to the State Governor on Water Board, Mr. Agnes Astu urged the community leaders to take ownership of the project stating that “once the state government brings any project to you it becomes your own, if you want it sustained then you need to secure the place”. She emphasised that the board is committed to fulfilling its mandate to provide portable water to every home in Cross River State. Reacting, the Clan Head of Ndok, Ntol Clement Ashaba Ijanga commended the management team of the board for the gesture and pledged the unalloyed support of the community to ensure that the work of the board is uninterrupted. He said “we promise that as you go back there the place will be clear because we needed opportunity to reach the government and express our problems”. Speaking on behalf of the community, Mr Micheal Ikpang Obi, thanked the Managing Director and his team adding that ” the visit has boosted our confidence that the board will correct the error done to the community and extend quality water to the people in the area”. Highlight of the visit was the removal of the traditional injunction from the Water Board Booster station and the presentation of some gift items. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .