As a student at the University of Benin, I read extensively on various fields in the social sciences. I was a political science undergraduate but I read philosophy, sociology, economics and psychology materials to have a broader view of society.
 
In secondary school, I had read (in History and Government) a little about ideologies like Marxism and capitalism (also equated with liberal democracy in the West). Black History also exposed me to Pan-Africanism, slavery and colonialism.
 
I was born in Ghana before we were sent away with other Nigerians by self-seeking military chiefs who had upstaged that country’s visionary pan-Africanist president, Dr. Kwame Nkrumah.
 
Naturally and easily, I embraced Pan-Africanism as the ideology of our people on the continent and in the diaspora, when I entered the university. However, I was close to Marxist students who we (the pan-Africanists) regarded highly because of the support of socialist countries such as the Soviet Union, Cuba, China etc for the anti-colonial struggle.  “The problems you find in any African state can also be found in every other African state to indicate that they are common problems to be tackled together more effectively…Our problem is that the scramble for Africa was designed to divide and weaken us. By re-uniting, we can pool our resources together and stop having 55 ineffective military budgets, 55 embassies in every country with some too poor to pay their rents or phone bills, 55 or more internal borders holding up commerce and the movement of the people, allowing genocidal regimes to pounce on any group of Africans that they fancy without fear of being stopped by the Peoples Republic of Africa United Democratically.
 
“Pooling our resources will create a sizable budget for education, health, agriculture, infrastructure construction, industrialization, single currency, single passport, federal parliament but still allow states to have their own constitutions and manage local affairs. The African Diaspora will also find it easier to exercise the right to return instead of going to one small country and being boxed in by the ridiculous colonial boundaries that our people defy daily in their millions.”
 
He added: “Foreign countries that wish to deal with Africa will find it easier because rather than negotiate with 55 inconsequential heads of state, they will be negotiating with a united powerful voice that will command respect. A untied Africa will be able to produce more for export and for internal needs and will also have more resources to import goods, not military weapons, for the benefit of all.”
Eto is the Associate Editor of The Guardian. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .