 Chiamaka Lisa George Nweke  According to the singer, whose passion for music gives her joy to show the world what she’s made up of musically with her style of music, an eclectic blend of Afro hip-hop and dancehall, there are good eggs and bad eggs, and that cuts across every section of society including the entertainment industry. Born in Enugu also known as Coal City or 042, as an only girl in a family of three; she started singing in the choir at the tender age of seven, where her vocal dexterity was discovered. Having discovered her calling at such an early age, it didn’t come as a surprise to many when she auditioned for the popular music reality show, MTN Project Fame in 2011, where she displayed her musical talent. Although she did not win the show, she left her mark and her musical career has continued to rise exponentially thereafter. Motivated by the experience garnered from the reality, she ventured into the music industry professionally in 2011, and in 2019, she dropped three singles with the titles, Gaza, Gele and Manage. She followed up with Grateful, an extended play (EP), which cemented her position as one of the leading up and coming artistes in the Nigeria music industry, and a further testament that she is not a one single wonder. “Music has always been part of me and it gives me joy to show the world what I’m made up of musically,” she said. The bubbling singer, who is currently enrolled at the Open University, Abuja, attended St. Cyprian’s Primary School, Enugu from where she proceeded to Abakpa Nike Secondary School, Enugu. Speaking about her new project, Odo, the Girls Abre singer said: “Odo means love, and since I am an advocate for moderation and spreading positivity, I settled for that title in order to shed more light on life and love and also advice people to show love and enjoy themselves but not to the extreme when trying to ‘enjoy’ themselves.” “As you enjoy life, do it with moderation because too much of anything can consume or destroy you and the Bible itself admonishes us about moderation and I am a strong believer of the word,” she added. According to Lisa, who also is a fashionista with fashion label, GL Clothing, which is home to several celebrities and personalities in the country, Odo is her new baby off her recently released Grateful EP “As I said earlier, I’m an advocate for love and positivity. I’m sure that the more the song gets the deserved promotion and awareness, which I am currently working on, the more the acceptance level will rise. From the review and feedbacks so far from a select few, I am impressed and so sure I’m on the right track.” Asked the motive behind the extended play release at this early stage of her career, the Jekalo crooner said, “The EP is to announce my arrival on the music scene and let the public know that I’m a brand to be reckoned with. Some people might argue that I am not ripe for an EP yet. “However, every brand has its own strategy, and with time people will understand why I took such a move. The EP contains five recordings originally written and done by me. It’s just a teaser for more recordings, which are yet to be released.” On the brand ‘Lisa George’, she explained that it is derived from her middle names. “My full name is Chiamaka Lisa George Nweke. So, lifting my middle names from my full name gives me the originality, which I want. Besides, it is the real me and sounds classy, which is what I represent as a brand and a person.” Commenting on life as Lisa George, the fast rising artiste says, “I am definitely happy with life as Lisa George but I can’t remain static because as the saying goes, one of the constant things in life is change. Change is like the wind. “When it comes, most times it blows us in the direction we are not willing to go but then, life goes on. I don’t want to be like somebody else. I want to be me and to be appreciated for the artist and musician with class and a message of love that I carry.” On her experience so far as an artiste, Lisa stated, “it has been ups and downs”, adding, “it is like a new plant, which must go through the soil before it blossoms. The downs can be pointed in the direction of people not being transparent while dealing with me. “Considering the fact that I’m new on the scene, some people seem to want to take advantage of my inexperience. However, the ups are more important as I have been able to grow and develop my craft and learn brand growth as well. In short, I have overcome the obstacles and I am moving on. “Of course, there are good eggs and bad eggs and that cuts across every section of society including the entertainment industry. Definitely, we have done well for ourselves but like we both know, there’s always room for improvement,’ she stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .