The Lagos State Government, yesterday, warned construction firms against breaching additional guidelines provided to curtail the spread of the Coronavirus on all construction sites in the state.  Government noted that any defaulting construction site would be shut down. 
 
Further to the directives of the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu on the gradual and controlled easing of the lockdown, which was introduced in the wake of the pandemic, the State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development announced additional guidelines for construction sites.
 
The State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako said the Ministry has taken cognisance of the vital contribution of the building industry to the state’s economy, including employment generation and overall development, and has deemed it necessary to ensure that, as the lockdown is gradually being eased in the industry, the health of the populace is not compromised. 
 
According to the new guidelines, “all building sites must maintain a register of all workers engaged; maintain daily record of workers engaged for specific activities; conduct temperature screening of all employees and visitors and any person with body temperature of 38°C and above should be referred to the NCDC immediately…” “ Physical distancing must be observed by all, at all times. Workers should be regularly briefed on government’s guidelines and updates provided by the Lagos State Ministry of Health to minimise the transmission of COVID-19. He said construction sites must also, “Monitor and document the health conditions of all workers on site daily “All necessary Information on the COVID-19 Pandemic as released by the Lagos State Government, including the Contact Details of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Lagos Office, should be displayed on the construction site for the benefit of all workers and visitors, to acquaint themselves and comply with safety precautions…” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .