THE Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has contributed N25 million to the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 to combat the ravaging Coronavirus in the country. The Managing Director of the Fund, Adebayo Somefun, who disclosed this in Abuja, urged spirited philanthropists and development agencies within and outside of the country contribute to their quota to taming the pandemic. He said: “Nigeria and of course the world at large is going through an overwhelming, unprecedented and dangerous phenomenal challenge, as the growing COVID-19 pandemic bites harder. “However, this has brought exceptional unity among nations, states, communities, businesses, religions, professions, individuals etc. as all coming together to explore different approaches to help respond and victoriously overcome this ugly global outbreak. Accordingly, the massive solidarity and support orchestrated by this shared concern is very welcome and commendable.” The NSITF boss highlighted that N20 million is for the purchase of ventilators, two million for the purchase of medical items such as face masks, hand gloves, hand sanitizers, disinfectant, swab sticks while three million is for the purchase of variety of food items as palliatives to the vulnerable population. Somefun described palliatives are a very strategic step to provide for the vulnerable group, saying, “yes palliatives because, according to the Philadelphia declaration, ILO 1944, ‘poverty anywhere constitutes a danger everywhere.” While applauding the Federal Government for taking various steps to tame the speed of the virus among the populace, the NSITF boss urged all Nigerians to adhere to the social distancing protocols and health advises given to protect us from being infected with this deadly virus. His words: “I commended the dedication of President Muhammadu Buhari for taking prompt action to keep the virus controllable, coupled with the number of people that have been healed and discharged from the various isolation centres etc. It is indeed, this is a rare feat, considering what is happening in more developed countries, with better medical facilities. The truth is that the situation would have been far worse if not for the promptness of Mr. President and the tireless, devoted and spirited efforts of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 led by the indefatigable Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .