  Anambra State has recorded two deaths at Ufuma and Onitsha and 10 confirmed cases arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, amid denial by the state government, describing the cases as controversial. The Guardian learnt that one of the cases is a 66-year old man who was among the 10 confirmed cases so far recorded in the state, while the other case was said to have contracted it from the partner who died undetected until test confirmed the deceased’ status. However, Governor Willie Obiano, in a statewide broadcast said the state has only one case out of the 10 cases confirmed by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), adding that the victim did not report to the health centre on time. He said it was important to explain that the only COVID-19 death recorded so far in the state was a 66-year old man who did not report his ill-health on time, adding, “The case was reported late to the hospital and by the time his result came back positive, 24 hours later, he had died.” Meanwhile, Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University, Professor Ademola Tayo, has said the institution has assembled a team of researchers to find treatment for the coronavirus pandemic. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Professor Tayo disclosed this in a statement issued by the institution’s Director of Marketing and Communication, Joshua Suleiman. According to the vice-chancellor, the team has submitted research proposals on COVID-19 to relevant government institutions for sponsorship and is waiting for approval. “Babcock University has put together a team of researchers to find a cure to the coronavirus pandemic. Our faculties in the departments of Public Health and Agriculture, who are currently researching on COVID-19, have submitted research proposals on it to the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (NIAS) for sponsorship. “We also do hope that private universities will be eligible for the Federal Government’s funding for research on COVID-19 vaccine so we can benefit from it,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .