Traditional medicine can cure COVID-19, says Alaafin
Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has begun the distribution of relief materials to 90,000 households identified as the poorest of the poor to cushion the economic effects of the Coronavirus pandemic. Makinde, who kicked off the distribution in Igboora in Ibarapa North Local Council of the state, lauded the people for their consistent support for him since he started his political journey in 2007. He said the government would also distribute another set of palliatives to 30,000 vulnerable persons. The governor, who also visited the Primary Health Care Centres in Idere and Igboora, which had been marked for improvement and renovation as isolation centres, said that though the state government decided against total lockdown, it embarked on intense sensitisation to ensure that the people follow safety precautions. “I personally put calls through to people, and some of them told me they are farmers, tailors and petty traders. The farmers that spoke with me said they already had food but the government should assist them by providing seedlings, pesticides to grow their farming business. So, because of this, we are going to give special palliatives to our farmers,” he said. Speaking on behalf of caretaker chairmen of the councils and LCDAs in Ibarapa Zone, Sarafadeen Olaoniye thanked Makinde for prioritising the welfare of all residents of the state. Meanwhile, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, has said that there was traditional medicine capable of combating the raging pestilence. He stated this while presenting a book written on the late Yoruba music genre of Apala, Ayinla Wahidi, popularly called Ayinla Omowura, in his palace. The book, entitled Ayinla Omowura: Life and Times of an Apala Legend, was written by syndicated columnist and former Special Adviser on Media to two former governors, Dr. Festus Adedayo. While recommending the book for public reading, as one that dwelt on the culture, language and traditional music of the Yoruba people, Oba Adeyemi also called for a return to what he called “the roots” to be able to fashion indigenous solutions to the problems as Africa, be they health or otherwise. According to the foremost monarch, Yoruba traditional medicine, in times past, treated all manner of diseases, ranging from smallpox, diabetes, hay fever and traditional herbalists were capable of sending people on message by telepathy. “There were no sicknesses or diseases under the surface of the earth that our forefathers were not capable of healing. I know that those powers are still potent and are present in us today,” he said. Alaafin cited a native herbalist in Oyo who passed on not too long ago. “The man would call out the poison in the snake and conjure the snake responsible for the sting wherever it was. The snake would be made to swallow its own venom,” he said, maintaining that modern medicine did not have that potency.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .