Amidst uncertainty on whether or not the 2020 Hajj exercise will hold, Nigerian pilgrims will know faith in the next two weeks. Chairman of National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) Zikrullah Kunle Hassan disclosed that the commission will issue a statement at the end of Ramadan. Hassan, who featured on the network of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN) programme, HAJJ: A Spiritual Journey”, on Friday, expressed optimism that as soon as the coast is cleared from the Saudi end, the commission will announce its decision. “I can be able to give you a definite answer after the Ramadan which is in two weeks time when the Saudi Arabia authorities would have agreed on whether it would hold and if it would hold. Of course, talk is ongoing. The modalities and everything about 2020 Hajj. I will tell Nigerians.” The statement signed by the assistant director at the commission, Mousa Ubandawaki, the chairman expressed optimism that the opening of the two Holy mosques in Makkah and Madina could be a pointer to the hope that Hajj 2020 may take place. “With the event of the last few days of the opening of the Holy mosques to worshippers, that gives us a ray of hope and glad tidings that Hajj could take place this year. “We depend on other variables. For instance even the Nigeria Airspace is closed for the next four weeks, which is also applicable in Saudi Arabia. Even if we want to fly now there’s no way we can do that unless the Airspace is opened” Zikrullah stated that with Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission has embarked on an extensive collaborative effort with the Federal Ministry of Health on the sensitization of intending pilgrims to ensure they are acquainted with the basic rules of engagement like social distancing, use of face mask and personal hygiene to avoid contracting the virus. He further outlined some of the effort put in place in the area of sensitization of pilgrims through the publication of leaflets and flyers, radio and television as well as the new media to educate the intending pilgrims in their domain. “We will not endanger the life of any of our citizen. We will take whatever decision in good faith. We won’t be reckless about trying to perform the Hajj by all means possible.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .