The military yesterday said it had neutralised 17 armed bandits during a raid on their hideouts at Mashigi Galbi, Damba and Kabarasha villages in Chikum council area of Kaduna State. In a statement, the Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major-General John Enenche, said during the expedition, three empty houses and a church building were partially damaged at Kabarasha settlement. According to him, “the military authorities have assured that they are taking responsibility for the damage to the properties, and compensation will be made after investigation.” The document read: “In continuation of operations to rid Kaduna State of armed bandits and other criminal elements, the Armed Forces of Nigeria, on May 7, 2020, conducted a joint clearance operation, involving troops of Operations THUNDER STRIKE and WHIRL PUNCH with air support from the Air Component of Operation GAMA AIKI, at suspected bandits’ hideouts around Mashigi Galbi, Damba and Kabarasha villages all in Gwagwada District of Chikun Local Government Area in Kaduna State. “During the operation, 17 armed bandits were neutralised, while several others escaped with gunshot wounds. “However, in the course of pursuing the bandits, three empty houses and a church building were partially damaged at Kabarasha village. There was no civilian casualty. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria regret this unfortunate incident, and a panel has been set up to investigate the occurrence in liaison with the Kaduna State government. “The buildings have been identified with a view to providing adequate compensation to the owners.” Enenche added: “Meanwhile, calm has been restored to the area. “Few people, who initially fled the area due to fear of bandits’ reprisal attack, have all returned to the community. “The High Command of the Armed Forces of Nigeria hereby reassures the public that it will continue to work assiduously to restore peace and security to the North West. “It equally thanks to the public for their support and cooperation, while encouraging them to continue to provide credible information that will facilitate the operations of the Armed Forces of Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .