 Enugu State government PHOTO: Twiter  The government said that with the development, Enugu State now has 15 cases, adding however that in all, six cases have been discharged after testing negative leaving nine active cases. State Commissioner for health, Dr Ikechukwu Obi disclosed Tuesday that the two cases that have tested negative are case number 5 and her daughter who is case number 9. He added that 3 new positive cases entered Enugu State illegally during the ban on interstate transportation. They include “Case 13, a 25-year-old man from Ondo State who lives in Lagos and made his way first to Akwa Ibom, then to Rivers State and finally to Obollo Afor in Udenu LGA of Enugu State, all within the period of closure of all land boundaries and inter-state movement. He developed symptoms while at Obollo Afor, the health authorities were alerted, he was tested and his result came out positive. “Case 14 is a 38-year-old male, from Okpuje in Nsukka LGA, who lives in Nassarawa State, and found his way back to Enugu State during the same period of lockdown. “On suspecting he may have contracted the virus, he initially went into self-quarantine in a hotel at Nsukka. He subsequently developed symptoms and alerted the health authorities. He was tested and his test result also came back positive”. He said the 15th case is a 28-year-old female widow who hails from Igboetiti local government area of the state.
The woman was said to live in Lagos with her husband who died recently and managed to smuggle her husband’s corpse back to Enugu State for burial, despite the lockdown in Lagos State and the national ban on inter-state movement. “Her actions raised suspicion and the health authorities were alerted. She was subsequently tested and her result came back positive. “These unfortunate figures are coming up as a result of individuals who have deliberately disobeyed the lockdown order and inter-state transportation as ordered by the Federal and State governments. “In these times, we all need to comply strictly with all measures and regulations and exercise restraint from behaviours that will put others at risk”, Obi stated He encouraged the people of the state to continue to comply with the directives of the Federal and Enugu State governments on containment of the spread of COVID-19 as well as the precautionary measures in the public health advisory of the Federal Ministry of Health, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, and the Enugu State Ministry of Health. He said the best options remain: Stay home when it is not necessary to go out. Wear a facemask/covering whenever you must go out. Keep a safe distance from other people at all times, which is social/physical distancing and avoid crowded places. Practice good respiratory hygiene (when coughing or sneezing) Clean surfaces with a 1 in 6 concentration of bleach and water. Wash your hands with soap for 20 seconds under running water as often as possible. And when facilities for handwashing are unavailable, sanitize your hands as often as possible using an alcohol-based hand sanitizer” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .