- State environment commissioner is dead, Makinde mourns Oyo State Government yesterday said that it had recorded four new cases of coronavirus. The new cases bring to 73 the total number of confirmed cases in the state, which is the 14th highest in the country. The state governor, Seyi Makinde, disclosed this in a series of tweets on Wednesday night. Makinde tweeted: “The COVID-19 confirmation tests for four suspected cases came back positive today (Wednesday). Two more COVID-19 cases were also confirmed late last night. So, the total number of confirmed cases in Oyo State as at 10.30 p.m. today (Wednesday) is 73. “We urge the following categories of people who have not already done so to register with the Emergency Operations Centre on 08095394000, 08095863000, 08078288999 and 08078288800 for the ongoing drive-through/walk-through testing at Adamasingba Stadium:
(a) People who believe they could have come in contact with a COVID-19 case in Oyo State; (b) People with COVID-19 symptoms: cough, fever, tiredness, body ache and shortness of breath; (c) People with respiratory disease symptoms; (d) Healthcare workers who have been in contact with the high-risk groups above.” Meanwhile, Oyo State Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Kehinde Ayoola, is dead. Ayoola, who hailed from Oyo Town, was the first Speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly during the era of Alhaji Lam Adesina as governor. Makinde, who mourned him yesterday in his Twitter handle, said he received news of the death of the commissioner with sadness. He said: “I received with deep sadness the news of the death of my dear friend and colleague, Kehinde Ayoola. Up till his death this morning (Thursday), he served as the Commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources in Oyo State. “I met the late Ayoola in 2002 when we worked together as members of the Fortune Group for the election of Senator Rasheed Ladoja. He also served as the director-general for my 2015 campaign and the deputy director-general for my 2019 campaign. “He was a loyal friend with a dedication to duty that cannot be questioned. He will be sorely missed for his great oratory skills and his love for the people of Oyo Town and Oyo State. May his soul rest in peace”. Ayoola was said to have driven himself to a hospital in Ibadan about two weeks ago where he was attended to and advised to have full rest at home. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .