The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has partnered with the Olu Benson Lulu-Briggs Foundation, to distribute palliatives to vulnerable persons and families across the country to cushion the effect of the COVID-19 lockdown. Chairperson of the foundation and wife of the late oil magnate, Mrs. Seinye Lulu-Briggs, said the intervention was aimed at alleviating the impact of COVID-19. UNICEF’s Chief of Field Office for Rivers State, Dr. Guy Marie Yogo, said the Fund was aware that many people were going through a lot of pain on account of COVID-19 due to pervading poverty and that it was the reason UNICEF partnered the foundation. In Rivers State, the foundation through La Sien Bottling Company, made a donation of an ambulance to the state COVID-19 Response Team While receiving the ambulance on behalf of the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, the State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Princewill Chike, commended the company for its thoughtful intervention describing the company as a true friend of Rivers State. In Akwa Ibom State, Mrs. Lulu-Briggs also donated an ambulance to support the State government’s fight against COVID-19. An additional provision of 2, 000 bags of rice was made to Mbo council, the base of the company’s operations. Speaking on behalf of the State Governor, Mr. Emmanuel Udom, Secretary to the state government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem lauded the foundation for the gesture.The foundation on Friday distributed 2, 000 bags of rice to Kano and Kogi states through the collaborative effort of Ahmadu Yakubu Foundation. Spokesman to Mrs. Lulu Briggs, Oraye St. Franklyn said the COVID-19 intervention scheme was still on-going and would continue to focus on vulnerable persons and families especially women and children. Other beneficiaries of the Lulu-Briggs Foundation’s COVID 19 intervention are the National Correctional Service, through both the Degema Medium Security Custodial Centre and the Port Harcourt Maximum Security Custodial Centre, the Nigeria Police, through the Rivers State Command as well as the Nigerian Army through both the Nigerian Army Officers Wives Association, Rivers State and Widows of fallen heroes among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .