The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called on the Federal Government to deploy all necessary resources to ensure the release of the Chairman of CAN, Nasarawa State, Bishop Joseph Masin, who was kidnapped on Wednesday night, May 27, 2020, by gunmen. His abductors are demanding for N20m ransom.
In  a statement yesterday in Abuja, CAN General Secretary, Barr. Joseph Bade Daramola said it  disheartening, disappointing, and reprehensible, how terrorists, herdsmen, kidnappers and bandits have been operating in the country, killing and maiming innocent citizens unabated. He described the security situation in the country as totally unacceptable and demeaning to the prowess of this great country which is generally styled as the Giant of Africa. The CAN scribe demanded immediate release of Bishop Joseph Masin from his captors, imediate release of Leah Sharibu and all Nigerians in the captivity of terrorists, and kidnappers and an immediate end to the ongoing genocide in Southern Kaduna and other states in the country where similar detestable crimes are ongoing. He said, “Since we have no Police of our own and we are trying as much as possible to avoid chaotic situations, we are placing a demand on the Federal Government and the Nasarawa State Government to ensure the safety and immediate release of Bishop Masin before it is too late.
We will not accept losing another state Chairman like we lost the late CAN Chairman, Rev. Lawan Andimi, in Adamawa State, who was gruesomely murdered by terrorists while our security agencies appeared powerless, helpless and de-robbed of their armor”. “It is only in Nigeria that we are having mass burials when we are not in a civil war. This kind of non-responsive situation can easily lead to a breakdown of law and order and must be consciously avoided by a positive responsiveness of our leaders. Just a few days ago, some hoodlums in the guise of Fulani herdsmen invaded some predominantly Christian communities in Kaduna State, killing the innocent people and up till now, no one has been brought to book. Everyone knows that it is the primary responsibility of government anywhere in the world to protect the lives and property of its citizens, but this has become history in Nigeria. This should not be”, he added . To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .