• Evacuates 292 stranded Nigerians from Saudi Arabia The Federal Executive Council (FEC) yesterday approved the augmentation of the contract sum of N896.9 million for the construction of Oseakwa Bridge in Anambra State. Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, made the disclosure while briefing State House correspondents on the outcome the council meeting attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, and the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd). He explained that the 90 metre long bridge with two-kilometre approach road was awarded to Messrs Horizon Construction Limited at the cost of N896,863,516.25 and completion period of 12 months. He said the contract, having attained 87.91 per cent completion, was stalled in 2012. The Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi, on his part, said council equally approved the award of Consultancy Training Services contract to SWETS MARINE CONSULTANCY in the sum of $454,050 for sea-time training for the Nigerian Seafarers Development Programme cadets. The Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said the meeting also sanctioned the award of contract for the Nigerian Oil and Gas Parks Scheme at Odukpani, Cross River State in favour of Messrs Kinetic Electro-Mechanical Limited in the sum of N2,923,480,976.70 inclusive of all taxes with a completion time of 15 months. Besides, Mohammed said N623.7 million was okayed for the purchase of computers and printers for zonal and area commands of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). He added the virtual meeting, which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja, equally sanctioned N610 million for the construction of a faculty of health services at the Plateau State University, Bokkos. In the meantime, the Federal Government has received from Saudi Arabia, 292 stranded
Nigerians. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, who disclosed this through his twitter handle, stated that the evacuees included nursing mothers and children. According to him, they were flown to the Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport, Abuja. Two hundred and sixty-five Nigerians had earlier been evacuated from the United Arab Emirates, 253 from the United Kingdom, while 160 returned from the United States of America. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .