Delta State Government has announced its sixth COVID-19 death at the Central Hospital, Warri, saying the deceased was a 78-year-old male patient who passed on in the early hours of yesterday, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Mordi Ononye, disclosed this in Asaba, explaining that the 28th case was a referred from a private hospital in Warri to the COVID-19 Treatment Centre at the Central Hospital Warri at 2 am and was brought in unconscious. A statement issued by his Public Relations Officer, Ojebo Donald, quoted the commissioner as saying that the patient had been in the private hospital before he was referred to the treatment centre where he died within three hours of arrival. He added that since the index case of COVID-19 was detected on April 7, 2020, the state had recorded a total of 28 cases, from the 425 persons that have so far been tested. “Five of the recorded deaths were between 47 and 78 years of age and they all had one pre-existing illness or the other, including diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic liver or kidney disease. “One of the cases involved a 20-year-old young man, who had been suffering from blood cancer and anemic heart failure that took him to hospital frequently for treatment, including several blood transfusions. Besides, the Delta State Council of Traditional Rulers has expressed support for the setting up of Operation Delta Hawk to tackle rising security in the state. Chairman of the council and the Obi of Owa Kingdom, Dr. Emmanuel Efeizomor II, who addressed journalists in Asaba, urged the state government to introduce a whistleblowing policy to encourage information volunteers in the communities, while also advocating that members of the outfit should be community-based for it to achieve its objectives. Dr. Efeizomor who spoke in the presence of the Obi of Onicha-Ugbo, Obi of Issele-Uku, Obi of Atuma, Obi of Idumuje-Unor, Obi of Umunede and Obi of Akumazi, also commended the state police command for its efforts at fighting crime in the state and urged concerted effort to achieve set goals. Meanwhile, Deputy Speaker, Delta State House of Assembly, Christopher Ochor Ochor, has described the state government proposed security outfit  ‘Operation Delta Hawk’ to help check crimes and criminality in the state, as a right step in the right direction. Ochor, who described the initiative as a bold step that should be encouraged by all residents of the state, pointed out that the establishment of the outfit, was in tandem with Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s good governance policy thrust, as security of Delta people was a priority to the state government. In a statement issued by his Press Secretary, Emmanuel Enebeli, in Asaba yesterday, Ochor said the escalating insecurity in the state called for concern for all Delta indigenes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .