Former representative of Anambra North Senatorial District, Mrs. Margery Okadigbo has congratulated newly appointed Chief of Staff (COS) to President Muhammadu Buhari, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, saying he will be an asset to the presidency. Margery, who is wife of former Senate President, the late Dr. Chuba Okadigbo, described Gambari as a round peg in a round hole, noting that in him, Buhari has found a loyal and competent professional with an impressive wealth of experience. “I congratulate Professor Gambari on his new assignment as COS to the president. Anybody, who followed his illustrious career, will have no doubt on his capacity to occupy such sensitive position, especially at a time the country is experiencing economic challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “With his international exposure, particularly his role in the development of New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), I have no doubt that Gambari will help Mr. President to effectively navigate the challenges and deliver on his campaign promises,” she said. Okadigbo recalled that in 1999, Gambari became the first under-secretary-general and special adviser to the Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN) on Africa and served till 2005. “In that capacity, he worked closely with heads of government, policymakers and institutions on the continent to develop NEPAD. At the same time, he acted as the resident special representative of the Secretary-General and head of the UN’s mission to Angola. “He was delegate to the assembly of the African Union (AU) as national delegate from 1984 to 1985 and member of the UN Secretary-General’s delegation from 2000 to 2012. His vast public service experience and expertise will be key in driving President Buhari’s Next Level Agenda,” Okadigbo added. While commending President Buhari for choosing an experienced diplomat and administrator to fill the vacuum created by the death of late Abba Kyari, Okadigbo, who was All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate for the Anambra North Senatorial election in 2019, said, “Mr. President has once again demonstrated his tact when it comes to decision making. “With the way late Kyari handled his job, many were concerned if Mr. President would find someone that could fill the big shoes he left. Although a lot of names were bandied, Gambari’s choice shows that Buhari is determined to give his best to Nigeria.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .