The Federal Government has inaugurated a technical committee to revitalise extension services in Nigeria, aimed to stimulate technology adoption and embed Good Agricultural Practice (GAP), towards improving food requirements and industrial expectations. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Muhammad Sabo Nanono, while inaugurating the committee, Tuesday, in Abuja, hinged agricultural development in the country on an integrated approach to revive extension advisory services. He charged the committee “to design a system of training agricultural extension workers in the next two years, and to recommend measures for the upgrading and retooling of extension training institutions across the country.” Nanono further said the committee would assist the Ministry in developing a workable framework and actionable programme for the training of 75,000 extension workers in collaboration with states Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs). He stressed the need to review extension services training modules and practices implemented in Nigeria, with a view to making them more effective and efficient. Other terms of reference of the committee include examining proposals submitted on international best practices in extension services and draw key learning points. “To recommend an immediately actionable model of training of 75,000 extension workers in 2020, to develop a workable framework for engaging and working with the states in the continuous training and retraining of extension services workers. “To recommend how to integrate and use the national farmer’s helpline centre with six zonal centres for real-time information dissemination, updates, feedbacks, and capacity of farmers and relevant stakeholders.” “To developing mechanisms for the implementation of recommendations, including monitoring and evaluation. To make other recommendation that would help in fast-tracking the complete transformation of extension services in Nigeria.” Responding on behalf of members, the Chairman, Director, Extension Services in the Ministry, Frank Kudla, pledged that the committee would work assiduously to deliver on its mandate. The Technical Committee also has as members; Frank S. Kudla, Director, Extension Services, Chairman; Karima I. Babangida, Director, Federal Department of Agriculture; Prof. M.K Othman, Director, NAERLS; Prof. Sani Miko, Director, SASAKAWA; Rose Idi, Resource Person, ADP, Bauchi; Dr. Oyebanji O. Olumide, Resource Person; Umar Wali, Resource Person/HMA Office/Secretary. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .