Buhari rejoices with gov at 60
As Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun celebrates one year in office today, which also coincides with his birthday, he has taken a low-key approach to celebration. In a statement he personally signed in Abeokuta, Abiodun thanked God for His benevolence on him, the people of Ogun State for trusting him with the mandate and the tremendous support for him in office, as well as his numerous well-wishers for their affection. He, however, said that in view of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic and the guidelines to combat the dreaded virus, a low-key approach had been adopted to mark the two events. According to him, while a number of completed projects across the state had earlier been earmarked for formal commissioning to mark his first year in office, this has now been put on hold. Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday joined Ogun State Executive Council, members of All Progressives Congress (APC) and citizens of the state in celebrating with the governor on his 60th birthday. The President, who congratulated the governor, his family, supporters and political associates on the landmark age, also commended the governor’s discipline, diligence and courage, which graciously translated into winning the 2019 elections, and the steps taken in prioritising education and healthcare in the state, and providing infrastructure that will stimulate more economic activities and reduce poverty. Buhari, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, prayed that God would endue the governor with abundant health and wisdom to realise his dreams. The governor said: “The on-going activation of completed projects for immediate use and benefits of the people of the state that commenced on Wednesday will continue. “In addition, inspection of other on-going projects, with strict compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines, will also proceed. “A compendium of all the administration’s activities in the last one year will be made available and well distributed. “Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) are further reminded of the extant directive that government fund must not be expended on any congratulatory advertorial. “However, they may publish the achievements of their respective mandates in line with the guidelines already issued by the one-year anniversary committee. “Rather than advertorial placements and gifts, friends and well-wishers (individuals and corporate organisations) are urged to convert funds meant for such gestures to donations and projects that will benefit the generality of the citizens and residents of the state. “I am grateful to God and deeply appreciate the show of love and solidarity.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .