South Africa hip-hop act and record producer, Kiernan Jarryd Forbes, better known as AKA, has continued his top form musically with the release of three new singles: Monument, Cross My Heart and Energy. The rapper, who is also known as Supa Mega, was last heard in December 2019. The hip-hop sensation kept his fans thirsty by not releasing new music for some time, as they only experienced him through a few guest verses. A stream of insults hurled towards his arch-nemesis, Cassper Nyovest another South African music heavyweight on Twitter divided the Megacy (his fans) and angered many South Africans in March. The Fela in Versace hitmaker had in his series of tweets mentioned Cass’ parents and use the word ‘moffie’ (a derogatory South African term for queer people). This put him on the wrong side of the internet. He would late apologise for the homophobic slur. He, also, attracted much criticism from fans on social media following his debacle with media personality and businessman Sizwe Dhlomo. The comical scuffle resulted from AKA revealing to his followers he never received a cent from Reebok for The SneAKA, his personalized Reebok shoe released in 2019. However, things took a different turn at the beginning of this month, when the Altar Ego singer launched his subscription-based app, AKA TV, which best piece of content has been an exclusive treat to his Orchestra on the Square Show. He followed up a week later, with a video of him and his band jamming. AKA had announced that he would be releasing three singles last week Friday, swaying the conversation from Twitter meltdowns and beef that has overstayed its welcome to music. The three singles – Monument, Cross My Heart and Energy – each contain different flavors, but are tied together by a refreshingly buoyant aura. They provide an escape from the current situation and teleport one to a time after the storm. AKA in the three singles exudes confidence and sound ready to dominate the game again. Both his singing and rapping sound sharp, as the three songs are poised to be radio staples in the near future. In Monuments, featuring mixing Grandmaster Ready D, and his frequent collaborator and long-time friend, Yanga Chief, AKA among other things, raps about the misgivings of ravaging Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and the stay at the home protocol of curbing it. He also retrospects at why he got into hip-hop, juxtaposing his memories with his current position on the scene. “It’s easy to stay home when you ain’t gotta deal with no domestic abuse. Please count your blessings, don’t be complaining about your wife or connection,” he sang. The nostalgic Energy takes familiar ears back in time with a sample from the popular ’90s house classic ‘Summer Daze’ by Nick Holder. The mid-tempo song fuses house undercut with modern trap elements overlaid with a stellar hook from Gemini Major. Produced by Makwa, the song, gives one the same feeling of having a heavy load getting lifted off their backs. AKA in the song, speaks of being “top of the mountain” and being “at the peak of my energy”. The infectious Cross My Heart is steeped in emotions, inspired by an ’80s groove, which the rapper sealed with his signature sound style – a sound that has never failed him since he adopted it in 2016, and he keeps refining. AKA in the song raps about a mysterious woman, who seems to be the central cause of his sanity during this time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .