Gunmen invaded three communities in Kaduna State on Monday and kidnapped 15 persons, including a village head. They also killed a security guard identified as Emmanuel Yerima. The communities are Kuriga, Komo and the Millennium City, all in Chikun Council. Although, the Kaduna Police Command was yet to confirm the incidents as the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mohammed Jalige, said he was yet to receive briefs from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the area. It was gathered from a source that the Kuriga and Komo attacks happened between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m. while the Millennium City attack happened about 10 p.m. The source, who said 12 persons were kidnapped in Kuriga and Komo, explained that the gunmen first attacked Manini Village in Kuriga, breaking into shops and carting away foodstuffs and other valuables. According to him, the bandits, unsatisfied with the operation, further moved into nearby Komo community and kidnapped one person. The source continued, “Later about 10 p.m., gunmen reportedly invaded Danhonu II and Doka Mai- Jama’a, all in Millennium City. At Danhonu II, the gunmen abducted a banker and his daughter and killed a security guard. “At Doka Jama’a, a few kilometres away from Danhono, a village head was kidnapped.” Another source, who pleaded anonymity, added, “Gunmen in large numbers invaded Manini village in Kuriga between 4 a.m. and 5 a.m. on Monday. They picked six persons from one family and broke into shops and carted away foodstuffs and other valuables. “When the ended the operation at Manini, they left for a nearby village, Komo, where they abducted one person. The incidents were reported to the police in the area.” Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, in the company of security officials in the state, visited the scene of the crime yesterday morning. The bandits were yet to demand ransom as at press time. The police have not confirmed the three incidents, as the spokesman, Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached on the telephone for reaction on the incident.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .