• Set To Borrow N2.5b To Buy Medical Equipment 
• Ratifies Nomination of Two Obas-elect, Suspends Four Kingmakers Ekiti State Government has approved a downward review of the 2020 budget from the initial N124.5b to N91.128b. The state government said the decline in global oil prices has caused a fall in revenue accruing to the state from the Federation Account, which brought about the N33b budgetary reduction. A statement, yesterday, by the Commissioner for Information, Muyiwa Olumilua, said the government took the action at its virtual State executive meeting, held in Ado Ekiti, on Friday. In the draft supplementary budget, according to the statement, the Personnel costs remained at 100 percent, while the council approved reduction in overheads by 50 and grants to parastatals by 20 percent. “The Supplementary Budget proposes an estimate of N91, 128,996,482.01, which is made up of recurrent expenditure of N56, 557,958,763 and a capital expenditure of N34, 571,037,719.01,” it said. The government also approved a memorandum on the N 2.5b credit support facility for the medical sector in the state to be accessed via the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Credit Support Intervention for Health Care sector. “A total of N2b would be expended on financing the state’s health care facilities, and acquisition of medical equipment, while N500m is for the purchase of medical consumables, drugs, and other expenditure of the state medical facilities.” The government also approved N281, 928,000 for the procurement of laboratory equipment for Ekiti State College of Agriculture and Technology, Isan-Ekiti, Ekiti State. Meanwhile, following their nominations by kingmakers, the state approved the appointment of Prince Iluku Ojo Oluwadamilare Omobire as the new Olomu of Ilomu Ekiti and Prince Adekunle Adeagbo of the Adifagbade Ruling House as the new Oore of Otun-Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun and Moba Local Government Areas respectively. However, the Council ordered the suspension of four kingmakers and the appointment of seven Warrant Chiefs, to perform the role of kingmakers in the process of filling the vacant stool of the Onimesi of Imesi-Ekiti, in Gboyin Local Government Area. “This was based on the refusal of the kingmakers to act on the list submitted to them by the Agunsoye Ruling House, thereby stalling the process to fill the stool, which became vacant since 2018. Their appointments take immediate effect,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .