The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammad Adamu has ordered the unseal of Tiamin Rice Limited, Kano in compliance with enforcement of fundamental rights of the rice company as directed by Federal high court, Abuja. The Police boss directed the reopen of the company and order the resumption of full operation. The court judgment, whose enforcement was executed by the IGP, thereby overruled Kano state government “notice of closure”, issued by the state Ministry of Environment on Saturday, 18th April, 2020, which alleged that fumes emitting from Tiamin premises is aggravating health condition of COVID-19 patients at Kwanar Dawakin Isolation centre. Discountenance with the action of the government, management of the rice processing company held for legal redress before Justice Okon E. Abang which held that the state government acted against the fundamental right of the company. Justice Abang had also granted all the reliefs sought including but not limited to an order that the Inspector General of Police, his officers, command in Kano state, agent and privies and anyone taking instructions from the Inspector General of Police, shall immediately take possession and grant access to the applicants for the purpose of continuing their lawful business since there is no subsisting order of court sealing same. The plaintiff had joined the IGP, Kano state Commissioner of Police, Kano state Government and Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in the suit held on 4th, May, 2020. Addressing journalists during a special prayer session held on Friday at the premises to unseal the company, counsel to Tiamin Rice Limited, Saidu Muhammad Tudunwada appalued the IGP for upholding the rule of law against what he described as executive lawlessness and arbitrariness, which he believed will complement the brave efforts for sustaining local production of rice which the federal government is championing. “ Our courts similarly deserve kudos for being the last hope of a common man and for their unwavering commitment to the rule of law and justice. It is a fact, that an essential element of democracy is the provision of an avalanche of windows and opportunities whereby a party who is not satisfied with the judgment of a court can further explore to seek redress or justice. Any step taken contrary to what is enshrined in the statute books and the constitution, is ultra vires and will only amount to repression. “ For there to be a smooth running of government under a democratic dispensation like ours, there must be reverence for the judiciary as an institution with full legal clothing from the constitution and other statutory enactments made pursuant thereof. Disrespect for the orders and judgment of a court, surely does no good to the rule of law and democratic process, instead lawlessness and impunity become the orders of a court of law cannot be overestimated as it reinforces the assurance of stability and due course of the law in Nigeria”. Barr. Tudunwada noted. In his reaction, the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Kano, Barrister Ibrahim Muktar told The Guardian that the state government had already filed notice of appeal and notice of restriction of execution order. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .