Ibrahim Magu PHOTO: Twitter The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) said it’s attention has been drawn to the antics of some few elements in the social media, employing desperate antics of blackmail, and smear campaigns against the successful war being fought against corrupt practices by the Commission and its courageous Chairman, Ibrahim Magu. EFCC in a statement yesterday in Abuja by it’s Spokesperson, Dele Oyewale As a law enforcement agency, disclosed that the EFCC has enough facts about the sponsors of such insidious campaigns, adding that It is an unflattering fact that corruption will always fight back and the Commission was not surprised that such a campaign could be coming from some overseas-based, politically-exposed and disgraced elements being investigated for unnerving acts of corruption. Oyewale said: “For his courage, consistence and never-say-die spirit, Magu, would undoubtedly, have a tribe of hard critics, cynics and bitter foes. However, it is uncharitable to link him with the ownership of some buildings belonging to other individuals with verifiable addresses. It is even ridiculous to allege that he shied away from being served a fictitious writ of summons over a matter long decided by the Judiciary” “The Commission finds every unfounded claim against it and its helmsman, as desperate backlash from disreputable elements suffering its uncompromising works against corrupt practices. We are not worried about such retrograde moves. Members of the public only need to ignore tendencies aimed at blackmailing the EFCC and its workforce” “Lastly, the Commission is on the trail of all the blackmailers and paid agents of darkness armed against it. Massive investigations of the platforms being used and their promoters have commenced. Facts about their operations shall be made known to the public and outcome of investigations being carried out shall also be released to the public. Appropriate legal actions are also being taken against bloggers and their promoters embarking on a campaign of calumny against the Commission” “The EFCC, its helmsman and entire workforce would not be dismayed or distracted in any way. The task of fighting corruption is sacrosanct and no reactionary antics of detractors will succeed against the Commission.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .