The Deputy Governor of Borno state, Umar Kadafur has said that the government will continue to invest in health ‘facilities and medical equipment’ to overcome air and water-borne diseases. According to him; over 45 per cent of health centres and facilities, were destroyed in decade long Boko Haram insurgency. Kadafur, who doubles as Chairman of COVID-19 response team; disclosed this Friday in Maiduguri at Heroes’ Campaign of releasing 135 patients
from six isolation centres. He said with the technical support of WHO and partners, the state government activated an Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) to
coordinate partners’ response. “There were nine response pillars including surveillance, risk communication, case management, point of entry, laboratory, logistics, coordination and mental health,” adding that other responses comprise contact tracing and infection prevention and control were also established. Speaking on isolation centres, he said: “The state government has established six functional isolation centres in Maiduguri metropolis, Biu and Monguno. He said the centres are located at Abba Kyari Memorial Hospital, University to Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH), BEWAC building and 7 Division, Nigerian Army at Biu and Monguno. He said that the Biu and Munguno isolation centres are about to be activated to treat individuals tested positive for coronavirus (COVID-19). While lamenting on high case fatality ratio, he said: “It could have been worse if not for the commitment and courage of our healthcare workers who have put their lives on the front burner to save all of us. “On behalf of our Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum; I say thank you to all the healthcare workers who are primary heroes and heroines before the survivors. “You’ve become the beacon of reality that COVID-19 is real but can be survived.” noting that the health workers are the symbol of hope that all hope is not lost yet even as COVID-19 ravages the world. Continued; “You have proved that the isolation centre is not a dead end. You have confirmed that positive status today can be negative status tomorrow. “You have defeated COVID-19. For that, I declare you heroes and heroines. Congratulations!” On the discharged patients, he said: “Despite your current negative status, you still need to observe preventive etiquettes including washing your hands under running water with soap or use hand sanitizers regularly. “You should maintain social distancing of two metres, and covering your cough and sneezes with a disposable tissue paper. “Your coughing is into your elbows. These are the only veritable options to limit community transmission in the absence of any effective vaccine to fight pandemic.” While warning the discharged patients, he said: “Isolate yourself even from family members if you feel symptoms of COVID-19. “Use face mask in the public, as COVID-19 is real and we must face it.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .