 Akeredolu  Immediately the money was discovered by the state Accountant-General and the Commissioner for Finance, the state House of Assembly under the leadership of Bamidele Oleyelogun, summoned them for questioning. But the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Donald Ojogo, in a statement made available to journalists in Akure yesterday, said: “The Ondo State government wishes to put the records in respect of the above subject matter. “We recall that at the inception of this administration, concerted efforts were made to take a comprehensive inventory of all assets and liabilities of the government, which include liquidity status. “This exercise, modestly conducted without the usual noise, was aimed at avoiding sensationalisation and needless acrimony. In this regard, all development partners of the government, including banks, rendered highly commendable forms of assistance.” However, by all inferences, according to report from the state Assembly and the Ministry of Information, the account was activated during the two-term tenure of the immediate past governor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, who handed over to the present administration on February 24, 2017. Ojogo said that the account and the deposited fund, which was promptly reported, were discovered through the vigilance and financial intelligence of the Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Wale Akinterinwa, adding that the record of the new recovery has also reflected in the records of the state for proper accountability and transparency. “It should be noted that neither the Finance Commissioner nor the Accountant-General was in their present position as at when the said account was opened more than 10 years ago. “The invitation of the Finance Commissioner by the House of Assembly and indeed, same extended to both the state Accountant-General and the Auditor-General are in line with government’s desire to make as transparent as possible the management of our commonwealth in Ondo State,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .