Kaduna State Government has begun searching for two COVID-19 patients who fled isolation centres where they were being treated. The state health commissioner Amina Baloni in a statement disclosed that the government is working with security agencies to identify and apprehend the two persons. “Security agencies are tracking two persons who, after isolating in their homes pending receipt of their test results, fled their homes and have been incommunicado since being informed that they had tested positive and would be moved to the KDSG isolation centre for treatment,” Baloni said on Sunday. The commissioner said the details of the two persons involved have been communicated to the security agencies for tracking and surveillance. Baloni stated that the “reckless action (of the two patients) is endangering themselves, their families and the larger community. “Similar irresponsible conduct by some Covid-19 positive cases has been reported in another state. It is a pattern of behaviour that must be stopped because it is dangerous to public safety.” She said it is mandatory for anyone who tested positive for Covid-19 to submit themselves for treatment at the isolation centre as it is illegal and dangerous for such persons to switch off their phones and make themselves inaccessible to health authorities after being notified of their test results. “Positive but asymptomatic persons and untreated Covid-19 cases have a high chance of infecting others and endangering their well-being,” Baloni said it is wrong to be “Knowingly infecting others and displaying an absence of consideration for the welfare of others is not a responsible response to the virus.” Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai had also tested positive for coronavirus in March and was discharged after recovery in April. Although El-Rufai said the experience was not one he wishes his enemy, he, however, said the disease should not be seen as the end for anyone who contracts it. “Covid-19 is not a death sentence. Persons who receive treatment promptly have a higher chance of defeating the disease,” Baloni said. “Twelve persons have so far been discharged in the state after receiving treatment & our health professionals are working hard for the recovery of other patients.” She urged members of the public with relevant information on the whereabouts of the two fleeing patients to promptly contact the authorities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .