 Uyo State Governor Udom Emmanuel PHOTO:Twitter  He made this assertion while fielding questions from newsmen on government decision on the above issue in Uyo yesterday. He further said that the governor’s pro-activeness led to him to setting up of COVID19 Economic Reconstruction Committee headed by a renowned economist Prof Akpan Horgan Ekpo, noting that, such as a clear demonstration of the Governor’s concerted approach to contain and defeat the pandemic. The UCCDA boss noted that apart from the adequate precautionary measures put in place by the governor to prevent the spread of the pandemic, the salary slash for political appointees would free some highly needed funds to invest in the critical socio-economic sector of the state for the benefit of all. Uwah observed that the construction of a Permanent Smart Infectious Diseases Isolation Centre at Ituk Mbang by the governor, also confirmed his holistic commitment and efforts to comprehensively manage the envisaged negative economic and social impacts the pandemic was likely to cause the entire world. It would be recalled that the state governor had through the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, announced the reduction of the salaries of all political appointees in the State by 20 per cent. According to the SSG, the decision was caused by the crash in crude oil price in the international market which has affected the revenue of the state. “In response to the prevailing economic realities of dwindling revenues caused by the crash in the price of crude oil in the global market, His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel, has painfully directed the slashing of salaries of all political office holders by 20 per cent. “His Excellency the Governor was confronted with an urgent need to take a decision on either of two painful options; Continue to pay the current salaries for a while and end up being totally unable to pay same subsequently or spread the discomfort sustainably over a period of time pending the return of crude oil price to normalcy in the
global market”. He explained that the action was of necessity and would be temporary, adding that, government would resume the full payment of salaries once the economy improves. The UCCDA Chairman said as a political appointee, he wholly welcomes the proposed 20% salary slash as a much-needed sacrifice to enable the state government stay on course in her determined efforts to defeat the dreaded virus. He observed that the governor meant well for the state and therefore appealed for continued support and cooperation from all responsible citizens so that his vision for the state was not derailed To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .