Gunmen suspected to be bandits have shot and killed the All Progressive Congress (APC) chairman of Batsari council area of Katsina state, Alhaji Abdulhamid Mamman. Mammam was killed on Sunday afternoon, at about 2:45pm, after the gunmen besieged Sabon Garin Dunburawa village, where he hailed from. Gunmen entered his home with the intention of abducting him and some of his family members, action of which he resisted. A source said it was while the deceased was showing resistance that the gunmen shot and killed him. His body, it was learnt, has been deposited at the General Hospital in Batsari, with sources saying he might be buried later on Sunday evening. The state has seen recent upsurge in activities of bandits, especially in councils areas sharing border with the dreaded Rugu forest. About 14 council areas had in recent months, witnessed activities of gunmen, most of whom are suspected to be bandits. The bandits’ mode of operation is to kill, maim and abduct hapless residents for ransom, rape women, rustle domestic animals and cause other evil havocks, including setting food stores and villages ablaze. Some two days ago, bandits had attacked close to a down villages in Sabuwa and Faksari council areas, where they reportedly killed over a dozen people. In one of the villages, they raped a woman and poured battery acid on her private part, with the woman said to battling for her life in the hospital. Following the upsurge in activities of bandits, President Muhammadu Buhari had a couple of weeks ago, ordered a coordinated security operation to flush out the bandits. Governor Aminu Masari, who days back lemented the operation of bandits in parts of the state, said some communities were more concerrned about the issue than they were about coronavirus. However, spokesman for the police command in the state, SP Gambo Isah is yet to respond to inquiries on the issue as at time of this report To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .