 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu PHOTO: Twitter  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had announced the compulsory use of wearing face masks as one of the guidelines for the gradual easing of lockdown which lasted for five weeks. The directive was to stem the spread of COVID-19 pandemic which had continued to be on the rise in the state. He said that failure to use masks in public places would invite sanctions and penalties. A NAN correspondent reports that the compliance level of traders, workers, transporters and other business owners in Igando, Iyana-Ipaja and Ayobo on the first day of the relaxation was high. Mr Jide Benson, a civil servant and resident of Ayobo, said that wearing of mask caused discomfort but that he had no choice. “I don’t have a choice than to wear it as the virus does not respect any person and my life does not have a duplicate.” Benson urged residents to support the government by adhering strictly to the guidelines laid down by the state. “The governments are making efforts to curb this pandemic; we need to support them in fighting this virus by complying with all the guidelines and directives.” Mrs Omolabake Ojo, a teacher, who resides at Iyana-Ipaja, said that she cannot do without wearing a face mask in the public. “With the number of confirmed cases which keep increasing on a daily basis, people need to be cautious. “Wearing of mask is now part of my dressing; I do not want to take any chances because health is wealth. “I also wear it in the house because not everybody infected will show symptoms.” According to her, if everybody complies with all the precautionary measures that had been given by authorities, the virus will be reduced. A businessman, Mr Shola Aina, resident at Igando, said that mask usage was for the betterment of everybody as the virus could be spread if the mask is not used. “Since wearing of mask is one of the safeguards against the virus at the moment, I will not fail to wear it. “I don’t visit the hospital because God blessed me with good health and Coronavirus will not take me there. “’ Wearing face mask combined with frequent washing of hands and social distancing among others is effective in reducing the spread,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .