NDDC Act for positive Initiative (API) has alleged that the decision to shut down the headquarters of the Niger delta development commission (NDDC) was part of the grand design to cover up wrongdoings in the outfit. The group in a statement it’s Head directorate of research, strategy and.programme, Mr
Kolawole Johnson contended that there was no basis to shut down the NDDC headquarters under the pretext of containing the Coronavirus pandemic. Drawing the attention of security agencies and President Mohammadu Buhari to the unfolding drama at the NDDC, the group insist that the probe of the NDDC must go ahead since key officials like the Executive Director, Finance & Administration and the Managing Director in the know of financial dealings are still alive. “Most of the documents in our possession have both names, there is no way the other party can feign ignorance. It noted: “We had earlier raised an alarm in the early hours of the day on a rumored satanic scheme to weave the death of the Acting Executive Director, Finance and Administration of the commission around COVID-19 in order for members of the commission to proceed on self- isolation, shut the office and frustrate the ongoing probe. “We alerted some journalists as early as 7:30am on this dubious plan and later appeared on a National Television to warn all involved to respect the dead and halt such inhuman plot. “Event this afternoon has finally confirmed this plan that was leaked to the public several hours before it was officially hatched. “The commission has released a memo to begin the series of drama planned; from isolation to fake test and eventual fake confirmation. We call on the President to direct security agencies to investigate and frustrate every ploy in this regard. “The late EDFA was no doubt an accounting officer, but not the chief accounting officer. The Managing Director/CEO is the chief accounting officer. All payments are authorized by the Executive Director, Finance & Administration while the final approval lies with the Managing Director. “Most of the documents in our possession have both names, there is no way the other party can feign ignorance. “We also make a special appeal to the security agencies to protect the Managing Director/CEO of the commission.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .