Kogi State government has said that it has acquired 5,000 antigen-based test kits for the coronavirus,  assuring the people of the State of the Government’s preparedness to ensure that COVID-19 is contained in the State. The Commissioner for Health, Dr Saka Audu Haruna made this known during a practical demonstration of some of the test kits before Journalists in Lokoja. He noted that, as a result of the rising speculation by the public on doubt about the readiness of the State Government in combating the spread of the dreaded COVID-19 virus, the state has since acquired 5,000 testing kits for the virus. He disclosed that Kogi State is expecting the second batch of the COVID-19 testing kits and assured the people of their commitment to saving their lives. According to Dr Haruna, Zubair one hundred and eleven persons with have been successfully tested with the kits, described it as sophisticated and have recorded all results as negative. Dr Saka noted that the silence maintained so far was basically to reduce panic and allow the people to carry out their economic lives which is also very important for their survival. The Commissioner further explained that the government focused more on sensitization programme to create awareness about the pandemic, teaching them the precautionary measures to take in order to avoid the spread of the disease, noting that it has yielded tremendous results. He equally mentioned that the COVID-19 squadron Committee has had an interface with hundreds of thousands of Kogi people via dedicated free call lines and a web and Android application specifically designed for such purpose. In his remark, the Hon. Commissioner for Information and Communication,  Kingsley Fanwo, said that the State Government would always cooperate with relevant health agencies that are ready to assist in strengthening the State’s health care infrastructure, commending the health sectors in the State on the fight against the pandemic. The chairman of Kogi Christian Association of Nigeria, (CAN),  Bishop John Ibenu in his speech, advised people to partner with the government to keep Kogi state free from the COVID-19 virus.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .