 The simulation of the proposed flyover and pedestrian bridges at Pen Cinema, Agege PHOTO:Twitter  The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructures, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye reiterated the government’s at the Year 2020 ministerial press briefing to celebrate the first year anniversary of the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration. She assured that all ongoing and uncompleted projects inherited from past administrations especially the immediate past administration will be completed to improve the living standard of Lagosians. Adeyoye noted that one of the major projects inherited by the administration that would be completed is the Agege Pen-Cinema flyover bridge which was designed to reduce travel time for residents of Ifako-Ijaiye, Agege and Alimosho Local Government would be completed in September 2020 She also disclosed that the administration will make the Lagos 4th Mainland Bridge a reality, hinting that her wish was for motorists and commuters to often enjoy a drastic reduction in travel time, stating that while new projects would be introduced by the present administration, existing projects would not be left unattended. She stated that the administration plans to expand the Agege-Berger road to reduce travel time in the state. “We realised that after completing the bridge, there is a gap that will be created and that is why we have decided that the Agege-Berger road should be expanded to reduce traffic within the axis. Adeyoye said one of the major facilities that would accompany the expansion works is provision of a dedicated Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) lane to move hundreds of Lagos residents coming from outside the state that might have alighted at Berger Bus Stop. “This will afford the people the opportunity to connect Agege and Abule-Egba from Berger axis of the state. That is what we have slated for next year. We have started working on the design as I speak and I am sure that by the end of the fourth quarter, we will be done with all the designs and cost of the road ahead of next year’s budget”, Adeyoye added. Adeyoye disclosed that Ijedodo road, which was said to have been abandoned for some years, has been awarded by the state government and that it would be handled by Messers Oceanic. She said that the preferred bidder for the 4th Mainland Bridge project would be made known soon, adding that the government is in the process of awarding a contract for the regional road project that will be a relief to the residents along the Lekki Epe Expressway. She further disclosed that the government has achieved a lot in the last one year in works and infrastructure especially in the rehabilitation and maintenance of roads through the Public Works Corporation (PWC). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .