The crisis in the Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has further deepened, as another caretaker committee emerges with Nandom Exodus as chairman. Exodus was not allowed to address journalists yesterday at the state’s party secretariat on Yakubu Gowon Way, Jos. Yakubu Chocho had been the caretaker committee chairman before the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, which put every political, social and economic activity on hold. His tenure would have expired if not for the COVID-19-induced lockdown. According to Exodus, the caretaker committee under Chocho has elapsed. His words, “The public has been misinformed by a group of individuals with some persons at the national level who have taken advantage of the ravaging COVID-19 health crisis to enrich themselves while perpetrating unconstitutional acts of tenure elongation. “In a serious matter such that has to do with the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) as claimed by these characters, the communicator should ordinarily be the national chairman or national secretary.” He cited Jigawa, Kano and Ekiti chapters whose caretaker committees’ letters were signed by the same National Organising Secretary, but wondered why their contents were entirely different. The constitution of the party, according to him, is very clear that it must be a seven-man caretaker committee comprising the chairman, the secretary and five members. Exodus claimed that his committee had the backing of most of the stakeholders of the party. He said the way the other caretakers conducted the ward and council congresses pointed smacked of serious issues on the ground, which the North Central zone of the party could attest to. Urging the Chocho-led committee to step down, as their tenure had elapsed, if they are genuinely interested in the party taking back its lost glory, he said: “We wish to call on them, in the interest of the party, to quietly seek the face of God and apologise to the party faithful for their conduct in the past days and pack their baggage and go home to continue with their electioneering, while we wait for COVID-19 to be over and normal businesses resume in Plateau State and Nigeria.” Efforts to reach Chocho or any of his committee members before going to press proved abortive. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .