• Tags pandemic ‘war situation’
Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum has pledged to equip and strengthen isolation centres to contain the coronavirus disease (COVID-19). In a statewide broadcast on Wednesday, Zulum said the four COVID-19 isolation centres were located at University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital (UMTH), Abba Kyari Memorial Hospital, Biu town and another near completion. While speaking on capacities of isolation centres, he said: “We will ensure adequate supply of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), mobile testing equipment and other logistics required for prompt response. “An effective synergy will be established between the COVID-19 response team and the general public to avert the consequences of or misinformation.” He said since the Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF) had discussed on self-reliance and revitalisation of the agriculture sector to transform the society. According to him, agriculture can be revitalised by developing the North’s human and material resources. While lamenting almajiri system, he said: “The 19 governors will take a hard look at the almajiri system for better human capacity building and development. The rich intellectual endowment of the young almajirai must be developed and harnessed for overall wellbeing of society. He, therefore, directed the COVID-19 response team led by Deputy Governor, Umar Kadafur to profile all the Tsangaya schools in the state to create a database. In another vein, the governor has declared that COVID-19 is a war situation requiring “supreme sacrifice” to survive. He said there must be solidarity of people and organisations to survive COVID-19 that had claimed over a dozen lives in the state. “In Borno, we have shown the much expected resilience and perseverance just as we did during the decade long Boko Haram insurgency.” “We had to completely suspend all our socio-economic activities to remain safe at home during insurgency that also claimed many lives and property. “The last four weeks has been a period of great trial for us in the state. We lost some of our great elder statesmen and leaders, scholars and illustrious sons, including the Shehu of Bama, Shehu Kyari; former governor of Borno, Mohammed Goni; as well as Galadima Sheriff, Wakil Lawan, Goni Kolo, and Goni Habib. He expressed appreciation to all for the concern and solidarity shown the state and prayed God to give the bereaved families the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss. While lamenting lockdown, Zulum said: “It has not been easy to find ourselves locked down in our homes under strenuous weather conditions and for most of us observing the Ramadan. “Most of our people are either peasant farmers, petty traders or menial workers that must go out daily to make purchases of basic needs of life.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .