Stage three of the Giro d'Italia, with its summit finish on Mount Etna, delivered on its pre-race hype delivering a hugely exciting day of racing.  The day's break made it to the line, with Jonathan Klever Caicedo (EF1) picking up the win. For NTT Pro Cycling (http://www.NTTProCycling.com), it was a very strong showing on all fronts. Victor Campenaerts featured in the break for the majority of the day, rejoining the peloton just before the climb to Etna. Once the race hit the final climb, we had Domenico Pozzovivo and Louis Meintjes climbing with the general classification group. Pozzovivo fought all the way to the finish, coming in 9th on the stage, with Meintjes placing 18th on the stage. The strong performance moves Pozzovivo to 7th on the general classification and Meintjes sits in 19th. Domenico Pozzovivo “It was a hard stage, which passed through many small towns, with cobbles. The cobbles made it a bit difficult with my arm, but I know the roads well, so I could manage my position in the peloton. When it was a good moment, thanks to my teammates, I was in the front in the final. I had decent legs, but the headwind was strong, so I tried to attack when the wind wasn't that strong. I am happy to be in the fight for GC now. Victor Campenaerts We rode together sometime in the peloton, but then they let us go, to give away the jersey, but it ended up just being a day in the front, giving some visibility to NTT Pro Cycling. It was not day where there was anything possible for a rider like me. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (http://www.NTTProCycling.com) (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (https://Qhubeka.org/) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (https://hello.global.NTT/) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website https://hello.global.NTT/ All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .