 Ezekwesili  What would you identify as the major setbacks to genuine enthronement of democratic culture?
I recently completed research on this issue as a Richard von Weizacker Fellowship at the Robert Bosch Academy in Berlin. As a candidate for the office of the President of Nigeria in the 2019 elections, I directly witnessed the absurdity of our politics and it naturally awakened my intellectual curiosity. What I observed in politics in that short time set me off on a journey to reflect and better understand the challenges of our Democracy, Politics, and Governance.  What essential features should define the ambitious project of fixing politics in Africa, particularly in Nigeria?
My #FixPolitics research findings concluded that every democracy, including that of Nigeria, can function well when it stands on three triangulated pillars of empowered and engaged citizens, who vote rationally for candidates that can effectively run the government on their behalf, ethical, competent, and capable politicians, who compete for votes by presenting citizens with alternative plans of how they will govern on their behalf and credible institutions that include constitutional, political and electoral bodies to regulate the relationship between citizens and politicians.
 
This means there are three key factors that determine the quality of political culture and outcomes in democracy; the engagement of the citizens as informed and active electorate; the quality of the political class and politicians who vie for elective offices; and the institutional integrity of the political regulatory system and context.  Where should the effort to fix politics begin and what could be a probable timeframe to evaluate progress?
The research found that any effort to #FixPolitics has to begin with the citizen’s pillar of the democracy triangle. It is only the Citizens Pillar that retains the credibility to fix the broken political system and corrupt culture that is to be fixed.
 
The Political Class Pillar cannot #FixPolitics, because they are the primary beneficiaries of the anomaly in our politics, therefore, inherently lack the incentive to correct it. The Regulatory Pillar unfortunately lacks the independence, strength, capability, and credibility to check the excesses of the political class in particular.  A complex mix of challenges, including low literacy level and economic deprivation has thrown up what could be described as a crisis of democracy in Nigeria, is it possible to inject sanity into the country’s politics?
You are spot-on in identifying the adverse impact of low literacy levels and poverty on our democracy. In my research, there is a conclusion that these two factors inhibit the quality of voting decisions of our electorate that are within the low-income class.  Now they know why choosing the right candidates in elections can further improve their households and communities.
   
Thirdly, design and launch an innovative data-based nationwide political literacy campaign using community organising modules to awaken and engage the over 60 per cent of low-income registered voter-population that has never participated in elections by voting after being registered to vote. That only 15 million out of 84 million registered voters elected a President into office in 2019 is a risk that can be transformed into an opportunity to bring in new voters without the distorted incentives of repeat voters to sell their votes. Considering our constitution, do you think Nigerians can repose confidence in the country’s political system and participate effectively?
The faulty foundation of our constitution is way deeper than even those issues you raised in that it was never the product of a citizens’ process. The military and some civilians collaborated to write a constitution, which they handed to our fourth republic democracy at the transition of 1999.
 
The tone of the constitution is militaristic and the content, unitary for a country that parades itself as a federation. It is not “The People’s Constitution” that it portends to be. The 1999 constitution does not reflect any form of negotiated common identity, values, vision, aspirations, political and governance structures of a country with a complex spectrum of ethnic, language, regional, cultural, religious, and other diversities like Nigeria. Nigerians have never had the privilege of determining their choices of what kind of union they wish to have as we enter deeper into the 21st Century.  Are you saying it is possible to have a qualitative governance system in Nigeria without qualitative and informed citizenry?
I think my previous answer to another question shows that it is impossible to run a democracy of uninformed and indifferent citizens and end up with qualitative governance. If a country’s democracy is lacking in the basic features of democratic ethos, values, principles, and institutions, governance will less likely produce good outcomes for the larger number of people.
 
This is what we see in our country. It is why despite all our huge endowment of population, natural resources, and geography, we are the world’s capital of extremely poor people with more than 80 million Nigerians in that category. Nigeria is ranked one of the most insecure countries in the world, the number three spot on the terrorism-ravaged table and 13 on the state’s fragility index. Sixty years after independence, we have an infant and maternal mortality rates that are higher than the average in Africa.
   
We are a country with the largest number of out-of-school children. And by the way, on this matter of Out-of-School children, we did prove that there are sound policy solutions that work to reduce it and get children into the classrooms, especially in the northern states. As minister of education from 2006 to 2007, we reduced the number from about 7million to 6.5 million within one academic session. Today, the number is a painful 13.5 million children growing as illiterate in the 21st century. No, it is impossible for our democracy to deliver qualitative governance without informed, active and engaged citizenry who make a deliberate move to take their center stage in the electoral and governance processes.  What I have said of Nigeria is unfortunately applicable in most of the other African countries. It is why by 2035, if we do not #FixPolitics on our continent, more than 90 per cent of the world’s remaining poor people will be on our continent. That would be a monumental tragedy.
Does #FixPolitics involve holding leaders to account? If so, how could a product of rigged election say a lawmaker, be held accountable, for instance?
Yes it will; election is not the end game in a democracy. Voting at elections is therefore only a part of the duties that citizens have for staying eternally vigilant and demanding accountability from those who exercise delegated authority on their behalf. The political literacy programmes for both the middle and low income class must be designed to support post-election engagements — that is during the time that governance commences after elections— of citizens to hold those they voted into office, or against; to account for the performance of their public responsibility.
  The #OfficeOfTheCitizen was identified as a credible initiative to empower such citizens’ actions. When you have more citizens in the constituency that delegated their authority to the kind of lawmaker you described, they will more probably become accountable. Why? They will because there is a disincentive of the credible threat of recall by united citizens in their constituency, working successfully together to remove the lawmaker. Not even the most perverse National Assembly can survive the pressure from a persistent citizens collective action.
Based on this grand agenda of sanitising democracy, which country serves as a realistic model to emulate and is that possible within the social limitations in Nigeria, viz, educational attainments and income levels?
First, from my research, no country’s democracy is perfect and taken for granted as having attained. This is absolutely crucial to note by those who assume that democracy has a destination, which when a country arrives, the citizens can then rest and “leave the institutions to work”. No, it does not work that way. Constant participation and vigilance is the only way a people can preserve their democracy and keep it working for their wellbeing.
    Second, no country fully resembles Nigeria; not even Indonesia, which shares a significant range of similarities with Nigeria. So, if we are to learn any lessons at all, it is this. We the people, the citizens are the ones with the right to gather around the table and design the functional democracy that serves all our people well. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .