• Urge Buhari To Change Your Leadership Style Rising from an emergency meeting at the Ose-Meji temple in Ibadan, Traditional Worshippers in Oyo State have called on President Muhammadu Buhari to be more proactive in responding to pressing national issues. They said though the national broadcast by the President late Thursday had eased the tension in the land, it came late and failed to recognise that people were killed at Lekki in Lagos. The emergency meeting, called over the ongoing #EndSARS protest in Nigeria, and which had notable Ifá and Òrìṣà priests in attendance, also laid curses on the killers of the protesters at Lekki and other parts of the country. In a statement by its President, Sur. Dasola Fadiran Adefabi, Secretary, Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode and three other executive members, the group said it was regrettable that President Buhari remained unyielding despite calls from all corners of the country for him to change his style of governance, desist from the use of religion and ethnicity to divide the citizens. The Secretary, Traditional Worshippers Association, Oyo State branch, Dr. Fayemi Fatunde Fakayode said the emergency meeting was as a result of calls from all traditionalists in the State for a solution to the current impasse in the country. At the end, members resolved that a strong curse be laid on those responsible for the killing of peaceful protesters across the country. Those at the meeting included the President, Sur. Dasola Fadiran Adefabi, Àràbà of Ìbàdàn land, Chief Ifalere Odegbemi Odegbola, Baálẹ̀ Yemoja of Ìbàdàn, Chief Omikunmi Egbelade and Ariwo of Ogbomoso, Chief Akanni Awotoye Adedeji. They said: “It is a sad day for Nigerians as news came that many youths were because they demanded good governance and an end to police brutality. Those who killed innocent Nigerians to defend our oppressors or for whatever reason will never see and experience peace in their lives. “The broadcast by the president would start yielding positive fruits if everything promised are manifesting in people’s lives and in the nation’s economy, else it might make Nigerians see the leadership as unyielding despite the international outcry.” The group urged President Buhari to make good use of “this historical phase of our lives and make tangible corrections wherever needed and as people wished before, during and after the agitation,” adding that if this was done, it shall be well with the country. The group also called on governors in Nigeria to protect their States from federal dominance and killings by sponsored thugs, adding that all that transpired during the present agitation for good governance would go on record for the future.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .