Two students of Ignatius Ajuru University of Education in Rivers State have been arrested for allegedly gang raping a year one student of the institution. The victim (19), whose names were withheld, was said to have visited his male friend known as Destiny at Hostel C, Room 20 located inside the varsity campus. It was gathered that, on arrival, Destiny seized the female student and had an affair with her and left immediately to pave way for two of his friends who entered the room same time and gang raped the female student. The Guardian gathered that while the act was on, other students within the hostel premises were alarmed by the noise in the room, they gathered and raised the alarm as they observed what was going on. Accordingly, that led to the arrest of the two boys on the spot with the help of the President, Student Union Government, Destiny Omunakwe, while the first student is still at large. The suspects were later handed over to the Rumuolumeni Police Division in Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the State. Angered by the development, the school management had ordered the real occupants of the room where the incident happened to vacate the hostel to pave way for thorough search for the third suspect. The Vice Chancellor of the Institution, Professor Ozo-Mekuri Ndimele, has confirmed the incident, saying, two of the three students have been arrested while efforts were on to apprehend the third suspect. Also, the Police Public Relations Officer of the State Police Command, Nnamdi Omoni told The Guardian that those involved in the matter were coming to his office to make statements, adding that he would issue official statement on the case after listening to them. Meanwhile, an advocate group, which has been following up on the matter, the Centre For Basic Rights Protection And Accountability campaign, condemned the alleged gang rape. The Acting State Secretary of the group, Mary Prince, called on the Police to ensure thorough investigations into the matter and ensure that any suspect found culpable is made to face the law. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .