The lifeless body of a seven-year-old boy, Fejiro Emoavworhe, who was declared missing few days ago, has been found at the bank of Ohovwe River in Ekiugbo, Ughelli North Council of Delta State. Also, the body of a middle-aged woman was found in a drainage at Buluku Street, Ughelli town. Wrapped in a sack, the body was without the breasts, tongue and genitals. The parents of Fejiro had reported him missing on Sunday, October 4, 2020, when the boy did not return home in the evening. The father, John Emoavworhe, told The Guardian that Fejiro, before his disappearance, was crying for ice cream outside when someone in white caftan lulled him and promised to buy him ice cream. “That was the last time we saw the boy,” he added. The boy’s lifeless body has been deposited at the Ughelli General Hospital mortuary, awaiting autopsy. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Onome Onovughagbogaya, confirmed the incident, saying that investigation was ongoing. MEANWHILE, flood has displaced over 120 persons in seven communities of Isoko South Council, Delta State. The displaced persons from Uzere, Olomoro, Igbide, Aviara, Umeh, Enwhe and Erowha are taking refugee in neighbouring towns. Chief Ferguson Onwo, representing Isoko South in the House of Assembly, visited the communities yesterday and expressed sadness over the disaster. He was particularly worried that the flood was increasing by the day. “Following reports on rising flood today (Tuesday), I went on an unscheduled visit to Uzere community, where it was discovered that many people have fled their homes for safety. It was very devastating seeing houses submerged and farmlands washed away by flood. Same situation in Aviara, Olomoro, Igbide, Enwhe and Umeh/ Erowha communities.” The Chairman, House Committee on Housing and Women Affairs sympathised with the victims and assured them that government would provide succour to them. He called on the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), State Emergency Relief Agency (SERA), Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and other interventionist agencies to help the victims.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .