The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have disagreed over Federal Government’s 118 trucks of food items sent to Bauchi State to cushion the effect of COVID-19. APC has asked the state government to tell the public on how 118 trailers of foodstuffs donated to the state by the federal government were shared. Governor Bala Mohammed had on Sunday said that hoodlums invaded the COVID-19 palliative warehouse and found it empty. The governor in the tweet said that all the palliatives received by the state government were shared to the beneficiaries across the state. Reacting to the Mohammed, APC’s publicity secretary, Adamu Aliyu Jallah, said the claims were baseless. The party said that the state government only shared the palliatives donated to the state by the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID). It added that if the government claims that it had distributed the palliatives across the 20 local government areas of the state, then, it should publish the names of beneficiaries of the palliatives from the federal government through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. The APC said: “We recall that within the week, the government claimed that hoodlums attacked the warehouse of the state to cart away the foodstuffs but went home disappointed having allegedly found an empty store. “If really the hoodlums found an empty warehouse, then the government should tell us the whereabouts of the 118 trailers of foodstuffs donated to the state government by the federal government. “Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Sadiya Faruk, brought the palliatives to the state on 6th September, 2020 for distribution to the needy and the items were received on behalf of the government by the Deputy Governor Baba Tela. “The question is where are those foodstuffs and to whom were they distributed? Of course, the state government claimed that it shared foodstuffs in some local governments, but the ones they shared were the ones donated by wealthy individuals and donor agencies. “What happened to 118 trailers of foodstuffs donated by the federal government? “The foodstuffs donated include 1,728 metric tonnes of maize, 235 metric tonnes of millet and 1,668 metric tonnes of sorghum. “We challenge the state government to publish the list of beneficiaries of the first tranch of palliatives sent by the federal government and the second tranch of 118 trailers received on behalf of the state by the deputy governor.” The opposition party said that if the state cannot publish the names of the beneficiaries, “then the governor should withdraw his claim that he has distributed all palliatives received and bring out the palliatives from wherever he is hiding them and start sharing it to the people of Bauchi state without delay.” But in a swift reaction, the Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, YayaNuwa Zainabari, dismissed the APC’s allegations saying that the palliatives were shared across 19 of the 20 LGAs in the state. He said: “The people of Bauchi are witnesses that since the state started receiving assistance of donations, the government has never delayed and refused distributing these palliatives to the people they were meant for. “It was even not to politicize this that the Governor appointed the Emir of Bauchi to head the palliation Committee. Let the APC go and meet their governors to know why they refused to share the palliatives and kept them and have been playing politics with it because they are not performing in their states.” On the governor’s tweet, he said it was true that hoodlums invaded the warehouse which was opened for them to see that there was nothing inside. Zainabari said the Emir of Bauchi, Suleiman Adamu, who is the Chairman of the Palliation Committee, can also provide useful information about the details of the local government coordinators and subsequently get the names of all those who benefited.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .