President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Emblem and Appeal Fund with an appealed to Nigerians to desist from actions and comments that could jeopardise the unity and progress of the nation. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the president performed the event shortly before the commencement of the weekly virtual meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) at the Council Chamber, State House, Abuja. According to Buhari, this year’s occasion reminds Nigerians of the need to guard jealously the unity of the nation which was won at great cost. The president, who stressed that ‘‘Nigeria’s strength lies in her diversity’’, honoured the memory of the nation’s fallen heroes and veterans, recounting their sacrifices during the  First and Second World Wars, the Nigerian Civil War and Peace Support Operations around the world. He also paid tribute to men and women currently engaged in internal security operations, particularly the ongoing fight against insurgency, terrorism and banditry in some parts of the country. He lauded the members of the armed forces for remaining steadfast in the difficult task of restoring peace and security inspite of the coronavirus pandemic. ”We honour the memory of our gallant officers and men who have paid the supreme sacrifice in order to keep the country united as one entity. ”The nation remains grateful for the efforts and sacrifice of the Armed Forces especially in the fight against insurgency and other internal security challenges confronting Nigeria. ”The Armed Forces Remembrance Day or Veterans Day as it is known in some parts of the world is an important event observed in commemoration of the end of the Second World War. ”In Commonwealth member countries, the Remembrance Day is observed on 11th November yearly.  However, for us the date was changed to Jan. 15 annually to accommodate the commemoration of the end of the Nigerian Civil War,’’ he said. On security operations in the North West and North Central zones in the country, Buhari expressed delight at the return of normalcy in some of the areas that previously witnessed security challenges. ”Our dear nation has witnessed numerous security challenges since independence. ”These security threats have undermined Nigeria in the areas of trade, investment and economy, education, health as well as agriculture and frequently denied Nigerians the freedom of movement. ”I am however pleased to state that a lot has been achieved in the Internal Security operations in the North West and North Central zones where in addition to Operations LAFIYA DOLE, HADARIN DAJI, HARBIN KUNAMA, WHIRL STROKE, other operations such as ACCORD, SAHEL SANITY and KATSINA were successfully launched. ”This has led to the return of normalcy in some of the affected areas. However, all hands must be on deck to check attacks on soft targets, ” he said. The president restated that his administration would continue to forge useful alliances with neighbours and friends in the international community for the total defeat of the security threats affecting the sub-region. He also promised to ensure timely provision of adequate resources and necessary logistics support for the Armed Forces. Buhari further pledged that under his watch the Nigeria Armed Forces would operate with the best modern warfare equipment, with welfare issues receiving utmost attention. The president also reassured Nigerians of his administration’s commitment to creating an environment in which all citizens and foreigners are guaranteed freedom and returns on investments. He, therefore, urged business enterprises to render discounts and rebates to men and women in uniform as a symbol of appreciation for their sacrifices. “Our administration will also ensure timely provision of adequate resources and necessary logistics support for the armed forces to operate with best and modern warfare equipment while at the same time addressing the issue of their welfare. “We are quite aware that it is our responsibility to provide a conducive environment that is devoid of security threats. “I want to reassure Nigerians that security being one of the pillars of this administration would continue to be on the forefront until peace and security are restored in the country. “We will create an environment in which Nigerians and foreigners are guaranteed freedom and returns on investments. “On this note, I ask business enterprises to render discount and rebate to our men and women in uniforms as a symbol of appreciation for their sacrifices. This kind gesture will make life easier for them and deepen their patriotism,’’ he said On support for families of members of the Armed Forces who died in active service, Buhari acknowledged that the unfortunate cost of the fight against insurgency and other internal security challenges was the unavoidable loss of lives of some gallant compatriots. ”The reality is that the spouses and defendants of these bread-winners in most cases experience trauma and deprivation. “However, we can be of support to them to lighten their burdens especially in light of the COVID-19 Pandemic. ”I, therefore, call on all to spare a thought for them and take positive steps to come to their aid,” he said. He commended the charity organisations that engaged in the noble cause of bringing succour to the families of fallen heroes and veterans. Speaking as the Grand Patron of the Nigerian Legion, the president expressed delighted that the Nigerian legion has continued to be a rallying point of veterans, doing a lot in catering for the welfare of ailing members ”To ensure that our veterans continue to share the comradeship that existed while in Service and that their welfare is adequately catered for, the Federal Government established the Nigerian Legion as well as fully paid all pension arrears of veterans,” he said. He urged State Governors, who are patrons of Legions in their respective States, as well as Nigerians, to continue to support and participate in the Legion’s initiatives in the areas of transportation, agriculture and housing development. The president called on Nigerians and other residents in the country to procure and wear the emblems with pride in order to identify with those who laid down their lives for the peace and security of the county. ”I encourage all to donate generously in support of our veterans and dependents of our fallen heroes,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .