Uptown Printing Limited pair of Grace Ihonbare and Rachel Danjuma at the weekend in Abuja beat Elizade Nigeria to win the national finals of the World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC) title. With over 49 teams in attendance at the event organised by Falcon Golf Development Company at the IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja, the lady contestants posted 79-Stableford points to win the competition. Uptown was joint first with Elizade Nigeria, represented by Olalere Olakunle and Paul Bamikole, which also signed for 79-Stableford points to share the lead. Emmanuel Edoka and Nicholas Ashinze of Rendows Events took the third position, while Amborg Farms team of E. A. Israel and Alex Nimel were fourth with Tim Ayomike and Akeem Lawal of Lakeem Suites in the fifth position. The pair of Charles Ojo and Joseph Moses of Eccoh Trends completed the top six winners in the two-day event. The field of who-is-who in golf also had the Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, and his pair, Esosa Ojomo on the course. The former Governor of Bauchi State, Abubakar Mohammed, and his partner, Ibrahim Babayo, were some of the several dignitaries who took part in this year’s event. Speaking at the closing ceremony, the Chief Executive Officer of the orgnising outfit, Remi Olukoya, promised to continue to work for the development of golf in Nigeria through exposure to international events like the World Corporate Golf Challenge (WCGC) and International Pairs (IP). He also thanked sponsors for their support. “We want to thank our sponsors, The Paradise Abuja, Nigerian Content Development Monitoring Board (NCDMB) and our Partners, Premium Pensions, Ibom Air, Banwo & Ighodalo, Fides, Citec, Singleton Whisky by Guinness, Infinity Trust Mortgage and several Individuals for their contribution and support,” he said. The captain of IBB International Golf & Country Club, Shola Awoyungbo, who said he was satisfied with the outcome of the event, urged winners to be good ambassadors of Nigeria in Portugal. The winners will enjoy an all-expense paid trip to Cascais, Portugal, where the world final has been scheduled to hold. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .