Expects CAF’s $300, 000 on or before November 1
The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has revealed that it finally received the $1 million palliative promised it by world football governing body, FIFA. The federation also said it has received $600, 000 from the football body for the construction of two mini stadia in the country. Announcing the receipt of the funds on his twitter handle yesterday, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick, said the federation got the fund on Monday and has also reconfirmed what it is meant for from FIFA. He added, “As a further break down, the $1 million for palliatives is composed of $500,000 for men’s football and $500,000 for the women’s game. FIFA has also promised to send the Federation an additional $500,000 sometime in January 2021, also as part of COVID-19 palliative efforts. “FIFA also sent $600,000 to the federation for the FIFA Forward 2.0 projects in Birnin-Kebbi and Ugborodo. At $300,000 each, it will enable the mini-stadia in both centers to start at a very good pace, as we earmark completion by the end of March 2021.” He disclosed that the NFF has also received confirmation from the Confederation of African Football (CAF) that it would get the expected $300,000 on or before Sunday, November 1. According to Pinnick, “With the $200,000 we have already ring-fenced from our sponsors’ funds for the purpose, the coast will then be clear for us to start the disbursement of funds to the beneficiaries, as captured in our approved template, from next week. “Even though we are bolstered by the guidelines from FIFA strictly outlying the purposes of these funds, as well as the approval of the NFF executive board, we will also interface with our auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers, on each and every line item, to ensure the disbursements conform to global best practices.” The NFF had in August outlined the formula for the distribution of its palliatives to men and women football, as well as all its affiliates, including the Supporters Club and the Sports Writers Association of Nigeria (SWAN).  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .