  It said this became expedient as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to ensure public health, safety and security. Governor Dapo Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, said the Diamond Independence anniversary activities earlier scheduled to hold at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto and Arcade Ground of the state Secretariat, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, would be strictly by invitation. The statement said security and other aides of invited guests would not be allowed into the premises. “All attendees at the function are to observe the COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks to protect themselves and their loved ones,” the statement said. “There will be 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. curfew daily for two days, Wednesday, September 30, 2020, through Friday, October 2, 2020, starting from tonight. “There will also be restriction of operations of commercial motorcycle riders, popularly called Okada, from all major roads in the state from 10.00 p.m. tonight (Wednesday) all through to 6.00 a.m. on Friday. “Operations of all commercial buses are also suspended from 10.00 p.m. tonight till Friday morning. “Taxi cabs are permitted to operate within the hours outside the daily curfew period. However, the number of passengers remains limited to a maximum of three only. “All forms of gathering in the state, except the state’s announced anniversary programme, are restricted to a maximum of 20 persons from 10.00 p.m. on Wednesday till 6.00 a.m. on Friday. No procession whatsoever is allowed. “Owners and operators of hotels, suites, guest houses, motels and such establishments providing accommodation should note that the restriction on operations has not been lifted. “All residents are to monitor and report any suspicious movement and activity in their neighbourhood to the security agencies. “The police, military and all security agencies have been directed to enforce these measures.” Abiodun, who reassured residents of security of lives and property before, during and after the anniversary, enjoined all Nigerians and citizens of Ogun State, in particular, to celebrate quietly at home and pray for the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .