 Keshi  Director-General of BRACED Commission, Ambassador Joe Keshi, in this interview with KELVIN EBIRI and LEO SOBECHI, expresses optimism that current political realities in the South of South geopolitical zone offer great opportunity harmonize socio-economic development in the region. The astute technocrat with immense experience noted told that after seven years’ lull, the BRACED (Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Edo and Delta states) commission need to speed up issues of economic development, creating opportunities in education, health, industrialisation among other sectors. What’s the prospect for reviving the BRACED commission now that all the states in the South of South belong to one political party?
I believe it will create a greater harmony. Even with Governor Godwin Obaseki in APC before, he was very much involved in trying to revive the BRACED commission and now that he has exchanged party, I have got the feeling that it will help solidify the regional cooperation that BRACED is trying to achieve.
 
Our hope is that the governors in terms of economic development will be on the same platform and have the same vision and political will, and to drive development even more in the region. Was politics behind the six years’ inactivity of the commission?
You could put it down to the disagreement that occurred and the bitterness that was left behind in the 2015 election. Let’s put it that it was more political in the sense that there were disagreement among the PDP governors at that time. Both about who to support at the federal level and then who to support at the local level and it created significant bitterness that lingered for a long time.
 
But, it is all gone and we are looking forward to the BRACED commission working more closely with the governors. Just like the commission in the South West, we report to the governors and in the last couple of years as I said as a result of the politics of the region itself, there was not many meetings at the BRACED level to address issues of concerns of economic development, which is what we are focused on.  How concerned is the BRACED commission about NBS latest report that put present unemployment rate in Akwa Ibom at 45.2% and Rivers 43.7%?
I have no reason to doubt the Bureau of Statistics report, because if you go round the region you will really know that there is unemployment because in terms of job creation little is being done across the board. My belief is that this is an area the states need to work seriously on by opening up the region for investment. If you go to some of the industrial estates that were built by previous governments years ago, they are no longer in existence and we need to recreate the industrial sector. We need to build up the industrial sector. We need to expand agriculture and use agriculture as the fulcrum of the development of the region.
 
We also need to invest in education, particularly, science and technology, and in health. When the region does all these it will begin to see the tide turn and then create the environment that will encourage investors, both local and foreign to come to the region. Which also means that the federal government has to pay serious attention to the issues of peace and security in that place because they control the security forces. They have full responsibility to ensure that the region is secure for investors to feel confident to be in the region. A number of states are putting up a miniature security structure to address their immediate security needs, I believe that will also be helpful. But, there are other areas that it is solely the responsibility of the federal government to provide security for critical national assets like oil pipeline. It is not the responsibility of the states to provide security for the pipelines. It is not the states that are responsible for the security of the ports or security of the crude oil. So those who are should also have the responsibility to provide adequate security. It is true that we have agencies and structure that have been set by the federal government, like the amnesty programme, the NDDC, they belong to the federal government, but from what we’ve seen during the probe of the NDDC, you can see that the tremendous amount of lack of monitoring and serious evaluation of the activities of NDDC. If there is a reform of the NDDC, it should be to focus on the larger picture of doing things rather than a situation where the money is wasted on things that do not expand or impact significantly on the lives of the people. I think that everybody concern with the Niger Delta needs to work together, they need to have a common vision that what is required in the Niger Delta is development. What is required in Niger Delta is to create employment and prosperity. What is required in the Niger Delta is to improve the environmental condition of the whole region. This is what the nation owes the region. Look, we are surviving because of the oil that is extracted from this region. So, it is not out of place to say that the federal government should do more to ensure that the condition of the region is significantly improved. The global market for palm oil, where Nigeria alone has 43 percent global production, is projected to reach $25.3 billion by 2025. Are there plans towards reviving palm industry in South-South?
That was the first sector we actually addressed between 2010 and 2013 when we came up with an agricultural template for the states. The first thing we said was that the region survived on palm oil in the years gone by. Today the region still has the capacity to produce oil palm, but when you go round the region and some areas in the Southeast you will see a lot of oil palm farms lying fallow.  Politics and economic development are intertwined, how do you think governors can put economic development above politics?
It is not about how do I want them to push development or not. As governors, they campaigned on improving the lives of their people. The only way you can improve the life of your people is by creating an environment that creates opportunity for them to be able to live decently; have gainful employment, live in a very safe and secure environment.
   
Again, I just think that the governors have a vision of improving the economic and material wellbeing of their people and this should be the focus. My greatest fear all the time is that a lot is done in terms of politics, but we need to spend on issue of economic development, creating opportunities, improving the situation that would enable a lot of things to happen in all fronts; in education, health, industrialisation.  How can the region overcome the challenge of the non-completion of the East-West Road and the Coastal railway project?
Again, in my view, we have to be imaginative in all these things. I have always wondered why the federal and the state governments in this country continue to insist on building roads. I served as a permanent secretary to the federal cabinet with two presidents. When you get the memo to the federal executive council for the award of a contract for one road, and when you read the genesis of that road, you will see that it is not as if the request is for a new contract.
 
In fact, the road may have been awarded twice before, but because of financial constraint, only little was done. Now, it is being awarded again in order to continue work, and then, the same road is probably not completed before the end of that regime. Another regime comes, awards the contract again and that continues over and over.
   
When you look at the history of all the federal roads, I am sure it is also the same in all the states of the federation. In fact, if we do a very good study, I will not be surprised if we find out that the roads that were awarded by the set of 1999 governors have been awarded again by their successors and then the successors of the successors. What does that tell you, it shows that there is something fundamentally wrong with the way these things are awarded.  What sorts of conversation should the South-South States be having with the Federal Government in terms of development and security of the region?
They should be having serious conversation with the federal government. In fact, it is not a question of the kind of conversation they should be having, the federal government has an obligation to the South-South, because the bulk of the resources keeping everybody alive in this country comes form that region. In fact, it is unfair to taking money from that region and be developing other places and not caring what goes on in the region.  Have the DISCOs ensured stable electricity supply to aid industrialisation of the region?
Where has the DISCOs ensured that in this country? My only regret is that when the DISCOs were being sold we had actually hoped that the regional governors at that time will come together and take one of the DISCOs in order to be able to provide light for themselves. Today, when you put together all the power generating plants in the Niger Delta, whether in Port Harcourt, Calabar etc, built by the states, if you put all together, the South-South will enjoy near 24 hours supply of electricity on daily basis. But the problem is that they also fed significant part of the production to the national grid. So, you find that some parts of Nigeria have light but the area where the plant is situated does not have light. And again, that is why I said there is a need for the federal government to pay adequate attention to the region. We need to really run this country as a federation and a lot of things will automatically resolve itself. Look, I lived in Atlanta for about six years; there is what you call the Southern Company and it is responsible for electricity in Atlanta down to Alabama, Mississippi, Nashville, I am not sure if their operation extends to Florida. But it is not the Federal Government that supplies the whole of United States electricity. Some governors in the South-South in the past built power plants. I think by law these are fed to the national grid. But what I think we should do is we should have two system. There should a national grid and one also that covers the region. So if everybody produces (power) from the region, use it in the region, what is left you can be put into the national grid. That will now encourage every state or on a regional bases for regions to build their own power. That will help to solve this problem of managing everything from the centre. This country will not disintegrate if we devolve power to the States. If we remove electricity from the executive list, remove railway development, and so many things from the executive list, you will see how this country will function very well, rather than wait for years from the Federal Government to do a lot of things. What must be done for the South-South region to begin to attract Foreign Direct Investment?
Very simple; unfortunately, the narrative has been created about the Niger Delta as a zone of instability and insecurity. Now, we have to find a way to change that narrative. Changing that narrative means that government need to create the enabling environment that will not just enable investors to come in, but that will protect the investors and protect their investment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .