A socio-political group, Oyo Kajola Group (OKG), has commended Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde for the roles he played in the just-concluded governorship election in Ondo State. In a statement, yesterday, signed by its Media Co-ordinator Adebayo Ayandele, the group said that democrats across the nation should be proud of the robust contributions of Makinde to the electoral process in Ondo State, adding that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should also give well-deserved commendations to the governor for his outstanding contributions. The group stated that Makinde as the leader of the PDP National Campaign Council helped in no small measure to deepen democracy and make the contest tick. The Oyo socio-political group asked opposition elements in the state to apologise to Makinde over the allegation that he spent the state’s money on Ondo poll, saying: “Makinde has been making meaningful financial contributions to several good causes even when he was a private citizen. He has been funding several humanitarian causes in the state for years now. He also funded his own elections, including the contest for senatorial seat in 2007 as well as the governorship bids in 2015 and 2019.” IN the same vein, the Nigerian Bar Association Election Working Group (NBA-EWG) has commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials for their early arrival at the over 500 polling units in Ondo State during the just concluded gubernatorial election. The group, in its report, said there was no interference with the process by election officials and neither was there any incidence of vote buying, inducement or exchange of money. The NBA, therefore, commended the people of Ondo State for their peaceful conduct during and after the elections. It also recommended that there should be more voting education in local languages and electronic accreditation as opposed to the use of paper process.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .