Siemens (www.Siemens.com) delivered 3,000 personal masks to Sudan’s Ministry of Health last month to assist in the battle against Covid-19, the company’s latest humanitarian investment initiative aimed at improving living standards in Sudan.  Siemens – in partnership with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GIZ), which is working on behalf of the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), as well as HELIOZ, and Plan International – has developed multiple programs that deliver humanitarian, economic and educational benefits to the marginalized people of Sudan.  “Serving the societies in which we work is one of our core values at Siemens,” said Sabine Dall’Omo, CEO of Siemens in Southern and Eastern Africa. “Through our partnerships, we are working to address the basic human needs and improve the quality of life of Sudan’s rural and marginalized communities.”  Sudan declared an economic state of emergency on September 10. This crisis demands an even greater response from the private sector to fulfill its social responsibility duties to help the people of Sudan wherever it can, especially those living in marginalized communities.  In addition to the delivery of protective gear, Siemens is executing the following humanitarian projects in the country:  The schools project also includes the installation of off-grid solar systems, which will provide energy and increase the potential for economic activity. These green energy systems will become teaching tools for students on renewable energy infrastructure. The initiative will also develop rainwater catchment facilities to ensure the availability of potable water in the dry season.  Siemens has been active in Sudan since 1922 and is dedicated to improving the lives of all Sudanese people.  For further information on Siemens in Sudan, please visit: https://sie.ag/3jPCVh2. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Siemens AG. Media Contact:
Siemens
Media Relations
Mohammed Aly Sergie, mobile +971 56 411 2019
E-mail: mohammed.aly-sergie@siemens.com Follow us on Twitter: www.twitter.com/siemens_press About Siemens AG:
Siemens AG (www.Siemens.com) (Berlin and Munich) is a global technology powerhouse that has stood for engineering excellence, innovation, quality, reliability and internationality for more than 170 years. Active around the world, the company focuses on intelligent infrastructure for buildings and distributed energy systems and on automation and digitalization in the process and manufacturing industries. Siemens brings together the digital and physical worlds to benefit customers and society. Through Mobility, a leading supplier of intelligent mobility solutions for rail and road transport, Siemens is helping to shape the world market for passenger and freight services. Via its majority stake in the publicly listed company Siemens Healthineers, Siemens is also a world-leading supplier of medical technology and digital health services. In addition, Siemens holds a minority stake in Siemens Energy, a global leader in the transmission and generation of electrical power that has been listed on the stock exchange since September 28, 2020. In fiscal 2019, which ended on September 30, 2019, the Siemens Group generated revenue of €58.5 billion and net income of €5.6 billion. As of September 30, 2019, the company had around 295,000 employees worldwide on the basis of continuing operations. Further information is available on the Internet at www.Siemens.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .