Chairman of the Anambra State Football Association (FA) Caretaker Committee, Emeka Okeke, has resigned the position. He now wants to contest for the chairmanship position. Okeke’s resignation, about one month to the expiration of the three months given to his committee to prepare grounds for elections into various FA positions, took football analysts by surprise. Other members of the Okeke-led caretaker committee are Mr. Victor Nwangwu (Vice-Chairman), Mr. Nonso Philip, Mrs. Charity Ebere Okonkwo, Mrs. Onyeabo Chimezie Success, and Mr. Onyedika Chijioke (Secretary). Announcing his decision to quit on Tuesday, Okeke, son of prominent transporter, Godwin Ubaka Okeke of the GUO Motors Limited fame, the medical doctor and owner of Aspire FC, said: “Having been involved in the repositioning of football in our dear state, as well as known what is needed to make it better, I, therefore, deem it fit to resign my position as the chairman of the Anambra Football Caretaker committee. “I believe it is in the best interest of football development and a good decision for me. “The caretaker committee was properly selected and we have built the foundation for football to thrive and blossom very well.” Okeke noted that the crop of people appointed along him was equal to the task, adding “I bet you, this is a formidable team… they will surely accomplish the work given to them within the required time frame. “I wish them luck and will continue to support and ensure that football advances higher, don’t forget that I own Aspire FC, so it is what I love doing well.” Okeke also thanked the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), sports journalists, club owners, coaches, referees, players, and stakeholders for supporting his committee while he was there. Recall that the NFF had on August 5, 2020, set up the  Okeke-led caretaker committee to run the ANSFA for three months. The constitution of the caretaker committee ended the ambition of Senator representing Anambra South zone, Ifeanyi Ubah, who is also the proprietor of FC IfeanyiUbah to secure a second term in office. The election of the substantive Anambra FA board will hold before November 2. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .