 Goodluck Ebele Jonathan  In what comes as his first official visit to the Southeast geopolitical after relinquishing power on May 29, 2015, Nigeria’s former President, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, is to chair the maiden edition of Igbo Business Hall of Fame Awards gala night in Enugu. At the event, which holds at the Nike Lake Resort on December 5, 2020, a total of 10 entrepreneurs are expected to be inducted in the presence of 200 high profile guests, including diplomats, top government officials, religious and political leaders among others.
 
The organisers of the award, Champions Court, in a statement by the Executive Director, Nik Ogbulie, said the reason organisers reward philanthropy and grooming of entrepreneurs is that it takes a village to raise an entrepreneur.
 
“The lone heroic entrepreneur who launches a business with courage and heroism is a myth. Every successful entrepreneur was helped along the way by countless influencers and supporters such as mentors, advisers, creditors, suppliers, partners, and customers. Every business exists in the context and fabric of the society,” the statement added.  Mbanefo, President of Champions Court, the organisers of the award, noted that the December 5 award shows that “it is time to bring these leaders and their accomplishments to public attention.”
 
He added: “A hall of fame is where history lives through physical and intimate items – old letters, diaries, scrapbooks, medals, trophies, trademark caps, walking sticks, autographed pictures, etc. – and the stories they contain seems to us a more effective way of honouring our business champions.
 
“It is perhaps a testimony to the quality and calibre of entrepreneurs from Southeast Nigeria and the golden moment’s entrepreneurship, especially the famous Igbo apprenticeship scheme, is currently enjoying that the cull from 70 entrepreneurs to 10 felt very painful, because of the eminence of the men and women on the long list. However, anyone able to get past his indignation and partisanship will acknowledge that this shortlist is worth celebrating.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .