NTT Pro Cycling (www.NTTProCycling.com) is excited to line-up for the UCI 1.Pro Scheldeprijs tomorrow, as the classics season continues in Belgium.  Our roster sees one change from Gent-Wevelgem, with Jay Thomson replacing Michael Valgren. Thomson’s diesel engine will add good support to the team built around our sprinter Max Walscheid in the earlier stages of the race. Edvald Boasson Hagen, Michael Gogl, Reinardt Janse van Rensburg. Samuele Battistella and Rasmus Tiller complete our team for the Belgian “sprinters classic”. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the race has been adapted to a 17,5 km circuit race running through Schoten, Antwerp. Jay Thomson- Rider Scheldeprijs is known as the sprinters classic and normally the wind has a lot to say in the race but due to restrictions in Holland, the race has been changed to the normal final lap from the past. I think this will favour a sprint even more. We have a good team here and believe we can do something great in the sprint with Max. We have something to fight for and we will try to show that we can mix it with the other sprint teams. Max Walscheid- Rider I am very motivated for Scheldeprijs. Last year I was second and to win this race as a sprinter is definitely one of the biggest goals. The race its self is definitely one that I am most motivated for over the year. I think we have a nice team here and we are aiming for a top result together. Gino Van Oudenhove – Sports Director Scheldeprijs is a bit different now, with the change in parcours due to COVID-19, but in the end, it is going to be the same drill. It will be a sprinters race, and for us, Max Walscheid was second in the race, so we will build a team around him, targeting a good result. We will look to deliver him in the best possible position in the final and we will use the whole team for that. It will also be good training for the other riders, ahead of Ronde van Vlaanderen next weekend. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (www.NTTProCycling.com) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (www.Qhubeka.org) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles.  People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd. :
NTT Ltd. (https://hello.global.ntt) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website: https://hello.global.ntt All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .