Motorists lament harrowing experience on Benin-Ore-Lagos highway
Following the widespread angst towards the operations of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) after a video went viral at the weekend of how a young man was assaulted and allegedly killed in Delta State by SARS officials, the Minister of State, Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, yesterday said the man is alive.
 
Keyamo, who said he contacted the victim’s brother and the state Commissioner of Police, added that the officers involved in the incident are not SARS but ‘Operation Delta Safe’ cops.
 
There was outrage on Saturday when clips surfaced on Twitter where a witness claimed the young man was gunned down by SARS operatives who also fled with the victim’s car.  MEANWHILE, some motorists plying the Benin-Lagos highway on Sunday lamented the ordeal they are faced with daily in the hands of policemen, alleging extortion and other misconduct at checkpoints.
 
A transporter who confided in The Guardian said the activities of the security operatives have become worrisome following the way and manner they stop and search vehicles and make unnecessary demands from transporters plying the roads.
 
According to him, from Okada Junction in Edo State to UNIBEN main gate, the police checkpoints are not out to do stop-and-search duties, but have turned the spots to tollgates where they allegedly demand money from motorists and commuters suspected to be Yahoo boys.
 
He said the development had forced many motorists to get into confrontation with security personnel on the road sometimes, not minding the risk of doing so, which may result in unpleasant consequences.
 
Reacting to the development in a telephone interview, the Officer-in-Charge of SARS in Edo State, Mr. Rex Makanju, condemned the action and denied any involvement of his men in the illicit activities on the highway, promising that any officer found wanting would be sanctioned.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .