Tinder Accused Of Discrimination By A Transgender User Jessica Alves has accused Tinder of discrimination after she was banned from the app just 24 hours after she signed up. She says she has been permanently barred from Tinder for “violating protocols”, but she believes it was because she is a transgender woman. However, a rep for Tinder says Jessica’s account has now been restored and was taken down only temporarily while her photos were verified. The 37-year-old claims to have only chatted to one man on the app but before they could exchange numbers her account was removed. According to MailOnline, she said: I then contacted Tinder via email and they said that I can’t never use Tinder again because I have violated their protocols when I clearly haven’t done nothing. I was probably reported by users thinking that my account was fake also. Now I wonder is it because I am a trans woman that I got suspended? Don’t I have the same civil rights to do online dating especially at COVID times where we can’t really meet people? It is very frustrating and I feel very discriminated against by Tinder. In response to the allegations made by Jessica, a spokesperson for Tinder said: “Jessica Alves’ account was temporarily suspended while we confirmed the authenticity of the profile. The account is now fully restored. We’ve advised Jessica Alves to add photo verification to her profile which visually displays her profile as being verified and genuine by Tinder. Jessica was recently dating surgeon Giacomo Urtis. She sparked speculation that they were engaged when she stepped out with a ring on her wedding finger but has claimed the jewellery was a present from her late father. Jessica came out as transgender last year and had her adam’s apple and six-pack removed as well as receiving facial feminisation surgery and taking female hormones. She estimates she’s splashed a huge £900,000 to achieve her look since coming out. The social media star spent £30,000 on fillers for her breasts and bum, £25,000 on a boob job, as well as £35,000 on injections for her hips, knees and feet.