IPOB APEX Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has condemned statements credited to leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, on the destruction of Yoruba assets in Lagos. In a statement endorsed by its President General, Nnia Nwodo, the group dissociated Ndigbo from Kali’s call, saying it was outraged by the IPOB leader’s inciting
comments on activities of the #ENDSARS protesters in Lagos, stressing that Ndigbo would not be dragged into a fight with any ethnic group in the country. The statement  titled: “#EndSARS: Alleged Destruction of Yoruba Economic Assets,” reads: “The attention of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has been drawn to a press statement issued by the Apapo O’Odua Koya (AOKOYA) on the ongoing youth uprising in Nigeria, particularly in Lagos as it relates to Ndigbo youth. “We find the statement disheartening not necessarily because of the falsehood in its sentiment, but that it is obviously being engineered and targeted at the age-long
a good relationship between the Igbo and the Yoruba. “Ohanaeze strongly believes that the statement is craftily drafted showing a skilful use of underhand tactics to achieve a set goal, which in this case is to set the Yoruba race against Ndigbo.” It said Ohanaeze Ndigbo vehemently resist the statement knowing the historical affinity of the two ethnic groups dating back to the days of the late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe to the famous and former militants, under the aegis of  Supreme Council of Niger Delta Avengers (SCONDA), have blamed bad governance for the ongoing nationwide protests by aggrieved youths. Mr. John Duku, in a statement on behalf of the ex-agitators,  condemned the shooting at the Lekki tollgate that claimed the lives of some protesters on Tuesday night in Lagos. He described the incident as senseless. The group argued that the demonstrations were not essentially about the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), a unit of the Nigeria Police Force, but a direct response to other social ills. They said: “We are in full support of the current nationwide protests spearheaded by the teeming youths of this nation.” shake across the Niger propagated by Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu. “This spontaneous relationship built by our forefathers over the years has been strengthened in the last three years by the political emancipation movement, being propelled by the Southern and Middle Belt Leadership Forum (SMBLF) comprising Ohanaeze Ndigbo (South East), Afenifere (South West), PANDEF (South-South and the Middle Belt Forum (North Central). “Based on the intelligence available to it, the Ohanaeze feels that the motive of the statement is not only to overtake the mileage covered by the group in setting
their people free from the hegemonic bondage, but to ensure its destruction.” Nwodo explained that Ndigbo were focused and unequivocal about what they want in a contemporary Nigeria, as already articulated in their terms of engagement, which is to restructure Nigeria into a true federal system where justice, fairness and equity would reign. “We refute any position being ascribed to Ndigbo even if such a position is being adduced by an Igbo that is not within the realm of the struggle to free Nigeria as encapsulated in the terms of agreement of the ethnic nationalities. “Ohanaeze will, therefore, wish to urge the Yoruba and the rest of the country to disregard any outburst from anybody as coming from Ndigbo that is not as succinctly captured in the terms of agreement of theethnic nationalities,” the statement added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .