Telecommunications firm, MTN has announced the appointment of Karl Toriola, as the Chief Executive Officer designate. His appointment is effective March 1, 2021, providing enough time for an orderly handover. A statement from the telecommunications firm, informed that since joining the Group in 2006, Toriola has also held a number of senior operational roles including Chief Technical Officer of MTN Nigeria, CEO of MTN Cameroon, and MTN Group Operations Executive. The new CEO-Designate obtained a Bachelor of Science in Electronic and Electrical Engineering from the University of Ife, a Master of Science degree in Communication Systems from the University of Wales, and attended the General Management Programme in Harvard Business School.
  
Toriola is currently the Vice President, West and Central Africa (WECA), excluding Nigeria and Ghana, a position he assumed in 2016.  Chairman of MTN Nigeria, Ernest Ndukwe, said after a thorough and rigorous selection process, “we are delighted to welcome Karl back to MTN Nigeria. Recognised throughout the industry as a highly experienced and well regarded business leader, Karl has been a member of the MTN family for over 14 years, and has an intimate understanding of the telco business.
  
“His appointment further reaffirms the Company’s commitment to succession planning as well as retaining and developing identified high performing executives. With his rich credentials, I am personally pleased that Karl Toriola is well-suited to lead MTN Nigeria’s Executive Management team through the next stages of growth in the years ahead.”
 
The current CEO of MTN Nigeria, Ferdinand Moolman, will exit this role with effect from March 1, 2021, and assume a new role as MTN Group Chief Risk Officer.  Moolman said: “I wish to thank the Board of Directors, Management, our dedicated shareholders and my amazing team, for all of the support you have given me through the years. I am proud of the people of MTN Nigeria and the Company we are building; and while this is a time of great challenge and opportunity. I remain steadfastly confident in the greater potential and future of this nation and the significance of our role within it. It has been my honour and privilege to serve this great Company. I am grateful for my time here and the supportive relationships built over time.”
 
Commenting on his new appointment, Toriola said: “I am delighted to be returning to serve in my country at such a critical point in history when the services we provide are so important to our national development. MTN Nigeria is a great company with exceptional people and extraordinary customers, who place a high value on those services. I have a clear focus on delivering a stellar network experience and enhanced customer service; and look forward to working with an outstanding group of leaders, in and out of government, and over the coming years, to continue harnessing our capabilities, transforming our relationships and delivering even greater value to our nation and her people.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .