• President’s support gave APC victory, says Buni
• Sanwo-Olu presents letter on EndSARS
• Gov-elect, dep gov-elect get certificate of return, pledge even development President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, met with the newly-elected Ondo State governor, Rotimi Akeredolu and the Deputy Governor-elect, Lucky Ayedatiwa, at the Presidebtial Villa, Abuja. Akeredolu, who spoke with State House Correspondents after the meeting, advised the deputy governor of the state, Agboola Ajayi, to resign from the post if he still has some level of honour left. He said that Ajayi’s days were numbered in the scheme of things as the administration was set to come on board under a new arrangement. Akeredolu, however, said that he was disposed to receive the deputy governor with open arms on condition of his being remorseful. He said that his earlier position on some prominent Ondo indigenes as his enemies for life was merely a political statement, saying that having won the election, he was not willing to keep enemies. Also speaking, APC Caretaker Chairman and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, said the delegation was in the Villa to thank the President on the party’s victory in Ondo State. In the same vein, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the meeting also afforded him the opportunity “to pass on the clarion call of all our youths that are protesting in different parts of the country on the ENDSARS NOW.” MEANWHILE, Akeredolu and his running mate, Aiyedatiwa, yesterday, received their certificate of return. Akeredolu, in his acceptance speech, pledged to surpass his achievement in the first term. He said he would be magnanimous in victory and bring even development across the state regardless of political affiliations. The governor  said: “It is a victory that a few things have been established for the generations to come. We have made a statement. No one has ever won with 50 per cent. We won with over 51 per cent. “Our re-election was a divine project. I want to assure the people that we will serve them in way that they have never seen before.” He lauded INEC and security operatives for the successful conduct of the election, dedicating the victory and certificates to God and the entire people of the state. HOWEVER, a former Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Femi Adekanbi, has described the victory of Akeredolu and the APC as well-deserved, adding that the second term victory had conferred on him a revered title as the political leader of the state. Adekambi, who served as commissioner in the cabinet of the immediate past governor, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, lamented the political stance taken by the former governor. He said that Mimiko betrayed 40 years friendship with Akeredolu to support the governorship candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) and incumbent deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .