Opposition idle, frustrated, says APC
A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti State has demanded explanation from the state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, over the whereabouts of the over N3 billion allegedly got from the Federal Government, World Bank and donations from individuals and corporate organisations. It also asked for explanation on the palliatives supplied by the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID) to ease the economic hardship caused by the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, yesterday, by the Publicity Secretary of the state PDP faction loyal to former Governor Ayodele Fayose, Raphael Adeyanju, the party said that the people of Ekiti State deserve to know what happened to the over N3 billion COVID-19 fund since there was no evidence to show that it was spent on anything. “Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State openly admitted that his state received N1 billion as COVID-19 fund from the Federal Government and that N1.1 billion grant was provided by the World Bank. “Governor Bello went on to say that it was only Kogi State that refused to sign Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) accepting the World Bank’s document on the N1.1 billion grant, meaning that other states, including Ekiti, got N1.1 billion from the World Bank. “Also, over N1 billion was donated to Ekiti State by private individuals and corporate organisations, making over N3 billion that the state got for COVID-19. Our question is, where is the money?” the statement said. The PDP, which also demanded the whereabouts of the palliatives supplied by private sectors-led CACOVID, said that since the food items were distributed by CACOVID early this month, Ekiti State government could not claim to have distributed them. MEANHILE, reacting to the allegations, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State said the PDP was idle, frustrated and had resorted to empty allegations and incitement as its weapon. In a statement signed by its Public Relations Officer, Ade Ajayi, in Ado-Ekiti, yesterday, the ruling party also said that false and unsubstantiated assertion that palliatives are stored in Government House was a ploy to incite the people to attack the seat of government. “They are not happy with the serene peace being enjoyed by the people of the state and want to create confusion. Their members have been identified to be the brains behind series of looting and burning that engulfed the state capital last week and those arrested are being prosecuted by the security agents. “PDP members and those who are bent on causing more confusion in the state should shelve their devilish plan or else they face dire consequences as security agents are more at alert to deal with trouble makers,” the statement said. The statement continues; “Ekiti people are wiser now and they cannot be incited by the enemies of the people against the youth friendly government of Dr.  Kayode Fayemi. “Ekiti State has gone beyond their theatrics and they (PDP) should start involving themselves in endeavours that would bring progress and peace to the state, instead of trying to foment trouble everyday. “They have about five factions in the state, they should try and put their party in order”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .