The political and social harmony that existed among the 109-member Senate since June 2019 is crashing. Issues relating to abuse of federal character principle in federal appointments, the alleged return of unitary and centralised accounting system in Senate, as well as the financial challenges associated with it, are among the immediate sources of trouble for the current leadership.  The gathering storm 
IT was further gathered that senators across party divides are smarting for a showdown with the Senate President who they accuse of making himself a willing tool in the hands of certain individuals in the presidency in their plot to continue to promote sectional agenda. A senator, who refused to be named, disclosed that senators from the South West and North Central are in league with their colleagues from the South East to frustrate the confirmation of Umar as a substantive Director-General of the PenCOM board. Allegations of nepotism
FOLLOWING the signing into law of the Pension Reform Act (2004) by former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s administration, the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) with the National Pension Commission (PenCOM) as the regulatory body, was introduced with Muhammad Ahmad from the North East as pioneer Director-General. The Pension Reform Act 2004, acknowledged as one of the landmark achievements of the Obasanjo administration, which sought to address and eliminate the problems associated with pension schemes in the country, has since been bogged down by nerve-racking power games of ethnic domination under the Buhari administration.  Some agencies where senators raised alleged lop-sided appointments include the Federal Character Commission (FCC), Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian security and defence sector, and appointment of vice-chancellors of 40 federal universities. Regarding the Nigerian Ports Authority, it was alleged in July 2020, that Some retired general managers have had their tenures extended on contract basis in order to stop their ‘potential successors’, who were from other parts of the country from succeeding them. But defending the appointments, NPA in a statement issued by its General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications, Jatto A Adams, said: “In the interest of public accountability, the management of Nigerian Ports Authority wishes to respond to reports of alleged lopsided appointment of general managers supposedly to northernise the authority. “We state up front that the allegation is unfounded and riddled with untruth.” On the appointment of 40 vice-chancellors of federal universities, the Senate Committee on Federal Character had queried FCC for the breach. The Acting Chairman of the commission, Dr. Shettima Bukar Abba, admitted that the appointment of vice-chancellors of the 40 federal universities in Nigeria was lopsided, which occasioned public outcry and protests across the country. Abba said FCC had expressed its resentment on how government ministries and parastatals disregard and flout due process in appointments and placements. “Mr. Chairman, there are 40 federal universities in Nigeria and when we took stock of vice-chancellors, especially the recent appointment that bred protest here and there at the six geopolitical levels, some zones were not adequately represented.” Concerning the alleged lopsided appointments in the security sector, the Senate was split along regional lines, when they debated a motion on the appointment of service chiefs by President Buhari. While senators from the south, particularly the South East accused the president of marginalising the geo-political zone, those from the north argued that the principle of federal character had been observed in the recruitment into security agencies. The division among the lawmakers occurred when they debated a motion entitled, ‘Urgent Need to Appoint a Representative of the South-East into the National Defence Council and the National Security Council.’ Other sectors where Buhari also did not renew appointees from the south for a second term in office but replaced them with persons from the north include Kemi Adeosun as former Minister of Finance, who was replaced with Zainab Ahmed and Dakuku Peterside, with Bashir Jamoh, as Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .