Kirikiri Lighter Terminal Command Area Controller, Comptroller Morenike Oladunni (middle) inspecting 254 cartons of 100ml of Tramadol hydrochloride and other items seized yesterday…. PHOTO: ADAKU ONYENUCHEYA The Nigeria Customs Service, Kirikiri Lighter Terminal Command, has said that despite the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic and other numerous challenges facing the economy, it has recorded a 42 per cent increase in its revenue generation in the first three quarters of the year compared with the same period last year. The Command Area Controller, Comptroller, Morenike Oladunni, who disclosed this to newsmen, said despite the poor road network and other challenges that have led to the closure of some terminals, the command has recorded N15.7 billion revenue in the period compared with the N11billion made the same period in 2019. “It has become necessary to let the people know how far we have gone this year. In the first quarter of the year, our revenue figure was N5.825, 124, 418 billion as against N2. 741, 396, 101 the same period last year. “In the second quarter, our revenue was N4. 378 billion as against N3.250 billion recorded the same period last year. “Between July and September, our revenue was N5. 519 billion as against N5. 130 billion generated 2019 third quarter,” he explained. Oladunni further disclosed that the command made seizures within the period based on false declaration worth over N229 million in duty paid value, adding that the sized items contravene Item No. 10 of the Extant Trade Prohibition of the Third Schedule of the common External Tariff (CET). She gave the breakdown of the seizures to include: 254 cartons of Tramadol hydrochloride of 100 milli gramme; 184 cartons of Chlorophenicol eye drop; 241 cartons of septrin suspension and other prohibited drugs; 102 bags of 20kg foreign rice; 126 cartons of tomato ketchup; 16 cartons of shawarma bread; 1, 190 cartons of various brands of body spray; hydrogenated coconut oil; spaghetti; used tyres; herbal tea; eye gel and scrubs; and other various items that could cause harm to the public. “We would all remember that the covid-19 problem came in fully at the end of the first quarter, the country was locked down from 27th of March and things have just taken shape in the last one month before
the endSARS protest came in again. “We thank God and appreciate our stakeholders and our proper resilient hard working, eagled-eye officers who are always on point when it comes to examination and revenue collection. In spite of all the odds, particularly as regards the road network, officers come to work on motorcycle not minding the hazards. We expect more positive results between now and the end of the year,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .