 INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu  Although cleared by the Senate after a rigorous screening exercise, Prof. Mahmood, whose appointment was ratified by the council of state, was inaugurated into office alongside five national commissioners, as chairman of the electoral commission on November 9, 2015.
 
The five commissioners, two of which tenures expire also on November 9, include Mrs. Amina Zakari (Northwest); Anthonia Okoosi-Simbine, (North Central); Mustafa Lecky (South/South); Soyebi Solomon (Southwest) and Baba Shettima Arfo (Northeast).  Walking The Talk
At the senate confirmation hearing, Prof. Yakubu declared that never again would the outcomes of elections be determined at the headquarters of INEC, insisting that under his supervision, transparent and credible electoral process would define his mandate.
 
But barely after one month in office, the new Chairman got the trickiest test in the life of INEC in Nigeria. The off-season Kogi State gubernatorial poll held and midway into the election, the unthinkable and unexpected happened.
 
One of the frontline opposition candidates, the main rival to the incumbent, Captain Idris Wada, who was seeking a second term mandate, Prince Abubakar Audu of All Progressives Congress (APC), died. 
 
The demise of a candidate midway to the collation of results was unprecedented and therefore put enormous pressure on INEC regarding how best to carry through the process without entailing further costs or vitiating the expressed voting preferences of the electorate. Being new in office, Prof. Yakubu vacillated, ostensibly to get wider stakeholder inputs, especially given that there was no precedence to rely on for direction on how to solve the puzzle. But, before resolving the puzzle of what becomes of the APC candidate’s earned ballots, it turned out that inconclusive poll, which became the defining metaphor of Mahmood’s era emerged.  Mixed Bag
SPEAKING at a programme to review the conduct of the 2019 general elections in Abuja in June 2019, Prof. Yakubu said INEC officials were the most improved public agency in Nigeria, stressing that elections the commission had been conducting sine 1999 show that INEC has continued to improve progressively.
   
The INEC chairman also disclosed that on his watch, the commission sent Electoral Officers (EOs) as observers in foreign elections so as to expose them to global best practices, even as he maintained that INEC “has significantly improved from where it used to be in 1999.”
 
His words: “Every organisation should be interested in its successive plan. The commission will not lose experienced hands soon. We try to build the capacity of our EOs by giving them the needed exposure.  Reports by reputable election monitors, including African Union (AU), European Union (EU) and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) blamed incompetence for INEC’s inability to foresee shortcomings that led to the postponement of the 2019 general elections six hours to commencement of voting. Verdict Of History, Future Agenda
AS the constitutional five year-term available for Prof. Mahmood Yakubu as INEC chairman runs its full course, the questions on the minds of watchers of Nigeria’s electoral system is whether the chairman would be reappointed for another term and what becomes of the reformation process of the electoral management system.
 
President Buhari recently declared his resolve to leave a legacy of transparent and credible elections by the time he rounds off his second term in 2023. Just as the nomination of Ms. Lauretta Onochie for the position of INEC national commissioner sparked controversies, many Nigerians are eager to know what becomes of the chairmanship post.
 
A lot of commentators have expressed misgivings about the nomination of Onochie, saying that apart from being a certified member of the governing party, INEC job is not like every other assignment that experience could be carried over from elsewhere.
 
The nomination of Onochie has also triggered conservations on whether the President would get the right caliber of person to step into Prof. Yakubu’s shoes if he is not reappointed or the incumbent decides like Jega, to limit his tenure to one term.  The 1999 constitution stipulates that the chairman should not be less than 40 years, while the commissioners should not be less than 35, but integrity, capacity and incorruptibility among other sterling qualities should be factored in.
 
Deep knowledge of the challenges of election in addition to experience in and the conduct or management of elections should be part of the essential qualifications of the INEC chairman. Since election management involves a very complex and massive field operations, the President should focus his search on those that have been interrogating issues affecting the country’s electoral process that have enviable track records.
 
However, the recent postponement of by-elections that would have taken place in 11 states by INEC could give room for a caretaker chairman as happened prior to the appointment of Prof. Yakubu. But being an institution, the commission as the chairman said, has over the years amassed capable hands, especially Resident Electoral Commissioners, to carry on with the business of conducting elections.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .