New Super Falcons’ Coach, Randy Waldrum. Federation officials depart for Austria today ahead Nigeria, Algeria friendly 
Some top officials of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) are expected to meet in Abuja this morning to brainstorm on the terms of contract for newly appointed Super Falcons coach, Randy Waldrum. The NFF announced the American on Monday as the new handler of the Falcons as replacement for former handler, Thomas Dennerby, who resigned in 2019. The football house did not mention the duration of the contract and financial details of the deal. There were media reports that Waldrum would retain his job in the U.S. as head coach of Pittsburg University women’s team, despite his new challenge of overseeing the Nigerian women national team. The Guardian learnt yesterday that some top officials of the NFF, particularly those in the Technical Committee, would meet in the federal capital, Abuja, today to discuss among other things, the duration of the contract and mode of operation for the coach. According to some media reports, 64-year-old Waldrum, who coached Trinidad and Tobago national team between 2014 and 2016, will combine the Super Falcons job with that of Pittsburgh’s women’s side. The report quoted a statement by Pittsburgh University’s women’s football team website, pittsburghpanthers.com saying: “Pitt women’s soccer head coach Randy Waldrum was named the head coach of the Nigeria Senior Women’s National Team, the Nigeria Football Federation announced Monday. Waldrum will coach the Super Falcons in addition to his current role as head coach of the Panthers (Pittsburgh’s women’s football team).” However, an NFF official told The Guardian yesterday that no final decision had been taken on whether Waldrum will combine the two jobs or not. “We have not taken a final decision on that aspect,” the official said. “I am on my way to Abuja now to meet with others on the issue. We should be able to reach a conclusion before we travel to Austria tomorrow (today).” Waldrum was the head coach of the United States U-23 National Team before joining Pittsburgh University. NFF president, Amaju Pinnick, is hopeful the new coach will help the nine-time African champions become a global force in women’s football. The Guardian recalls that former handler, U.S.-based Florence Omagbemi, who led the team to win the 2016 African Women’s Nations Cup title in Cameroon, turned down NFF’s request to become Waldrum’s assistant over alleged order by a top official that she must relocate from America to Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .