Abiodun urges protesters to allow implementation of reform
The National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) has demanded the immediate release of all those detained for participating in the #EndSARS campaign across the country. This is as normalcy, yesterday, returned to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) where protesters had blocked roads and distorted economic and social activities on Monday. NYCN President, Solomon Adodo, at a press conference in Abuja, condemned the firing of live bullets, which led to the death of some of the peaceful protesters. The group called on the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to immediately issue a directive against the maltreatment of protesters by security operatives. While maintaining that the ban of SARS should be sustained, the group said practicable steps should be taken to assure Nigerians that the police unit was gone for good. Meanwhile, NYCN called on youths, including the #EndSARS protesters, to desist from hostilities against police officers, since they were part of society. The group noted that the principal purpose of the protest had been achieved, as SARS had been proscribed. However, there was free movement yesterday on the major roads of Abuja that were locked down on Monday by protesters. But heavy presence of security personnel was noticed within the city and some strategic entry and exit points. The ‘end police brutality’ chants broke out following days of protests calling for the scrapping of the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) of the police. OGUN State Governor Dapo Abiodun has urged #EndSARS protesters in the state to be civil in their conduct not to allow their demonstrations to be hijacked by hoodlums and self-serving people. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, yesterday, Abiodun enjoined the security agencies to always exercise great restraint and avoid use of force in managing peaceful protests. The governor, who identified with the objectives of the protest against law enforcement agencies brutalising the citizens, insisted that peaceful protest is a legitimate way of showing grievances against perceived high-handedness or injustice with any system. He, however, pleaded with the youths that conduct, capable of breach of public peace and safety, may also lead to undesirable outcome that runs counter to the reason for the protest in the first instance. “The youths should allow the planned reform of the police, starting with the immediate disbandment of SARS and other measures already announced by President Muhammadu Buhari,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .