Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom PHOTO:Twitter PFN, MURIC commiserate with victims’ families Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom; Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA), Tony Elumelu; Women in Management, Business and Public Service (WIMBIZ) and World Igbo Congress have condemned the attack on unarmed protesters at Lekki in Lagos. While arguing that visiting the protesters with violence was not a solution to the agitations, Ortom urged the Federal Government to address the concerns of Nigerians as echoed by the protesting youths. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, the governor called for a thorough investigation into the shooting that led to the death of some protesters
and fish out perpetrators of the heinous crime for prosecution. On his part, Elumelu stated “It is important that lethal force is not applied on unarmed protesters and that we all engage peacefully and constructively. To the youth,
your unity, purpose, and sacrifice are an inspiration. Your struggles will not be in vain.” Similarly, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, also condemned the use of force by Nigerian armed forces in Lagos. Calling on the Nigerian authorities to take urgent steps to deal decisively with the underlying problem of a persistent rights violation by the security forces, she added that they should make a stronger effort to bring police and army personnel guilty of crimes against civilians to justice. In the same vein, members of Women in Management, Business and Public Service (WIMBIZ) noted: “The loss of lives, maiming and injuries are unacceptable and do not
align with the tenets of democracy. We commiserate with the families that have lost their loved ones and share the pain and anguish of all citizens of this great country.” The Executive Board Chairman of World Igbo Congress, Prof. Anthony Ejiofor, stated that “the agitation for police reform is overdue because a better policing
the system would serve all Nigerians, including the politicians well. Meanwhile, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) has commiserated with families of the victims. The National President, Dr Felix Omobude, condemned the deployment of soldiers to the protest ground and demanded a thorough investigation of the incident, with
the victims receiving justice and compensation. While pleading with Nigerians to remain calm and peaceful, the Christian body urged the protesters to allow the government to rebuild trust and implement the promises made. The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) also hailed Nigerian youths for demanding an end to harassment and intimidation in the hands of SARS men. The group, however, asked the protesters to step back after making their points to allow the government to actualise their demands. Lauding Nigerian youths in a statement signed by its Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola, MURIC said: “Nigerian youths have demonstrated the ability to articulate their grievances. They showed ingenuity in the coordination of the welfare of fellow protesters, thereby lending credence to the ‘not too young to rule’ mantra.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .