FiFPRO set to sue Nasarawa United for negligence in player’s death The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has denied that it refused to release the autopsy report on late Nasarawa United player, Chineme Martin, to the deceased’s family. The federation said it tried to assist the family before and after the burial of the late defender, who slumped and died during a Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) match at the Lafia Township Stadium last season. The family last week wrote to the world football players’ union, FIFPRO, seeking help to sue the NFF and Nasarawa United for alleged negligence that led to the player’s death in March. Martin’s family claimed, in a letter sent to FIFPRO, that Nasarawa United refused to pay Martin’s full entitlements and compensation for his death, as well as denied them access to his contract documents. The family also alleges that Martin would not have died if the NFF and the club had adequate medical facilities at the Lafia Stadium on the day the incident happened. Following the petition, The Guardian learned that FiFPRO is getting the papers together to sue both the NFF and Nasarawa United. But reacting to the allegations against the NFF, the federation’s Deputy Media Director, Ademola Olajire, said it was unfair to accuse the body of denying the late Martin’s family access to information released by the committee inaugurated to investigate the cause of the player’s death. “I remember the NFF issued a statement when the committee submitted its report via zoom. I believe the press statement contained the main points of the committee’s findings and recommendations. “In the allegation that the club has refused to pay the late player’s allowances, I am sincerely not aware and not able to comment on this,” he said. A source in Nasarawa United had earlier told The Guardian that they have paid N4 million to Martin’s family. But the deceased’s family, however, say the sum does not cover all the benefits due to the player. [d] To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .