 FCMB. Photo/Entrepreneurs.  The Bank further assured that it will continue to leverage on its solid business models, highly professional staff, innovation, bespoke solutions, and technology to turn the aspirations of customers into life-changing opportunities. FCMB gave the assurance in a statement to commemorate this year’s International Customer Service Week, holding from October 5 to 9, themed, “Dream Team”, which highlights the importance of teamwork in providing outstanding service to all customers at this challenging period. The Customer Service Week, which started 36 years ago, is a period set aside to recognise and appreciate the job done by people in service organisations in a way that emphasises the importance of customer service in running successful businesses as well as the role of employees towards achieving this. In the statement, FCMB announced several exciting activities to make this year’s Customer Service Week memorable and impactful, which offers another opportunity to further connect, engage and appreciate customers for their unbridled loyalty and patronage in the 38 years of its existence. The activities include a customer appreciation drive whereby customers who buy airtime worth N500 and above via the Bank’s USSD channel get a 10% bonus add-on all through the week; a virtual question and answer session between customers and the Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology. This will afford customers an opportunity to get first-hand responses and clarifications on matters relating to their business relationship with the Bank. Commenting on the 2020 edition of the Customer Service Week, the Divisional Head, Service Management & Technology, FCMB, Oluwakayode Adigun, said the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has revolutionised the way organisations and their employees engage with customers. He said: “This year’s event resonates deeply with us because we pride ourselves as an institution that is made up of world-class professionals driven by a culture of excellence. In addition, we consistently go the extra mile to develop and offer solutions that align with the lifestyle and aspirations of the various segments of the population we serve. For all of these, we are again using the opportunity of the customer service week to express our appreciation to our stakeholders.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .