Demonstrators shut businesses, chase students, workers in Ekiti
The member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency of Plateau State in the House of Assembly, Dachung Bagos, has backed the ongoing #EndSARS protests by youths across the federation. This is even as the marchers, yesterday, spurned military threat to consolidate their occupation of the Duste –Ushafa-Bwari highway in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Addressing newsmen in Abuja, the lawmaker clarified that the agitation was not to disrupt governance or “destroy our beloved country, but to seek for an end to police brutality and general reform of the security system in Nigeria, as well as to voice grievances against injustice and inequality.” He went on: “To achieve true federalism that reflects the dream of our founding fathers for a Nigeria of equal opportunities, and a Nigeria where citizens are free to air their concerns without molestation, government should take the #EndSARS protests as a clarion call for a complete reform of the force and creation of state police in the forthcoming constitutional amendment.” He warned security personnel against intimidating the protesters, demanding justice for victims of SARS operatives and those killed recently in parts of the country. Bagos implored the youths to remain peaceful and civil in their approach. Occupying the FCT road as early as 8.00a.m. yesterday, the demonstrators obstructed free vehicular movement and economic activities. The Guardian learnt that the activists had been hinted of the intention of the military to take over some key roads within Abuja. It was further gathered that besides workers on this axis, others had free ride to work, as the army had positioned itself in major locations within the nation’s capital. BESIDES, youths have shut a good number of businesses and chased civil servants in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. Public workers, who were on their way to work, got stranded, while some of them were seen returning home in frustration. Moreover, students in public and private schools, who had just resumed, were hurriedly evacuated to safety. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .