Victor Moses on national duty with the Super Eagles….He says he will put smile on faces of Spartak Moscow’s fans / AFP PHOTO / Giuseppe CACACE • Sixth Loan Stint After Liverpool, Stoke City, West Ham, Fenerbahce, Inter
Former Super Eagles winger, Victor Moses has promised to make Spartak Moscow’s fans happy, just as he described his latest loan deal as a great pleasure. Moses says Spartak Moscow is one of the greatest clubs in Europe. The Nigerian was an important part of Chelsea that won the Premier League title under Antonio Conte in the 2016/17 campaign, but hasn’t featured in the plans of current manager Frank Lampard. He has departed Stamford Bridge for a sixth loan spell for the Russian side on loan with an option to sign him permanently. “Victor Moses has joined Spartak Moscow on loan for the remainder of the 2020/21 campaign,” Chelsea revealed in a statement published on the club’s official website. Spartak Moscow is currently vying for the top spot in the Russia league with rivals Zenit St. Petersburg. Both sides are on 21 points after ten games, with Zenit leading on goals difference. Moses, 29 played on loan at Inter Milan last season, but despite Antonio Conte’s push for the club to retain him, the hierarchy opted for other options for the right wing-back role. Before the loan stint at and Italian Serie A side Inter Milan, Moses had been shipped to Liverpool, Stoke City, West Ham, and Turkish giants Fenerbahce. His most successful season in a Chelsea shirt came during Conte’s reign with the manager converting him to a right wing-back, helping the club win the Premier League title in 2017. Moses last appearance in Chelsea shirt was in September 2018. Spartak Moscow is a powerhouse in the Russian league, boasting 22 titles. And an excited Moses is eager to kick-off in his new home. Speaking to Team Moses Media shortly after his move was confirmed, Moses said: “Hello guys, it’s a great pleasure for me to sign for Spartak, one of the greatest clubs in Europe. “I cannot wait to get started to meet my teammates. It’s going to be an interesting season. Come on Spartak!” The Red-Whites have had notable players grace their field in the past, including former Nigeria hitman, Emmanuel Emenike. Moses, a versatile winger, played a vital role in Super Eagles’ African Nations Cup victory at South Africa 2013.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .