OAIC frowns on exclusion from SARS panel As the #EndSARS protests rage across the country, the Chairman, GUO Motors, Chief Godwin Okeke, has urged the Federal Government to accede to the demands of the protesters. The protesting youths are demanding institutional reforms, cost of governance review, constitutional reforms, educational reforms, youth reforms and public office reform. Okeke, while fielding questions from newsmen in Onitsha yesterday, urged the youths to look towards self-reliance through innovation and entrepreneurship, in the absence of sufficient white-collar jobs for the teeming population. He, however, agreed that the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) should be reformed for efficiency, advocating the setting up of a committee to oversee the recruitment and training of over 50,000 young graduates to various government parastatals targeted at addressing youth restiveness occasioned by unemployment.
IN another vein, an executive member of the Organisation of African Instituted Churches (OAIC) in Anambra State has kicked against the group’s exclusion from the judicial panel of inquiry into the activities of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Governor Willie Obiano had, on Monday, inaugurated the panel headed by Justice Vivian Umeh (rtd.).Other members are the Commissioner for Justice, Uju Nwogu; Professor Theresa Obiekezi, Mark Okoye, Dr. Bonaventure Enemali, AVM Ben Chiobi (rtd.), Bishop Johnson Ekwe (Angican representative), Rev. Fr. Kenneth Oraegbunam (Catholic), Chairman of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. John Ndubuisi of ECWA/TEKNA and Joseph Ekwunife of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN). The traditional institution is representated by Igwe Nnamdi Oruche.According to him, OAIC participated fully in the anti-SARS protests and provided the leading light through its youth leader, Rev. Nwabueze. He called on the state government to urgently look into the body and include OAIC as one of the members, since it was the only bloc in CAN that was not represented. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .