  In the words of the contract theorists, life has become nasty, brutish, and short. This is certainly not the country of our dream. Some feel otherwise and have argued that it is not too good to give the impression that the country has achieved nothing. We concede the right to do so but greatly differ. Our problems are numerous, and to wit: failure of governance, malfunctioning state system, and a rentier substructure that has fed the greed of the state elite. We have been running away from them. Truth be told, there is nothing that has never been saying about the problems. We have lamented over and over again about the problems of the country that are turning out to be intractable and insoluble. The reason is that the governing elite failed to deviate from the paved road to perdition. They live a lie, persuading themselves that all is well, even though the country has become the butt of jokes by other countries. There was this joke by an East African government functionary who narrated a story of how a Nigerian government functionary spent ill-gotten wealth from resources meant for the commonwealth to satisfy his immoral cravings at the expense of infrastructural development and quality of life of the average citizens.
 
We have become a pitiable country. Nigeria has so much potential, which has always been the central point of reference instead of its actualisation. James Robertson, the last colonial Governor-General of Nigeria envisioned a great nation that would play a great role in the international arena. This has not been so, and due to abuse of power, the peoples of Nigeria have been forced into servitude amid unharnessed resources. To be sure, the post-colonial rulers met cleavages. They were further entrenched by successive leadership in ways that they now constitute an obstacle to freedom of development. Instead of building common citizenship, they promoted religion and ethnic identity; instead of building a nation from the tapestry of diversity that the country is, some of the country’s rulers prioritised sectarianism and irredentism, thereby squandering the commons. This is why corruption and poor leadership are part of the problems of Nigeria. Leadership is inexorably linked to the transformation of the substructure even while it is dialectically informed by it.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .