 Dr. Tunde Ayeye  Dr. Ayeye, also the Chief Executive Officer of Draiklinas Limited, a post construction, commercial and industrial cleaning company, made the call at a briefing to commemorate the firm’s 40th anniversary and unveiling of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) project, Clean-up Save Lives Campaign. To mark the event, he said the company will be rewarding corporates to demonstrate its gratitude and also give 40 per cent anniversary promo discount for the first 40 customers for the next four months as well as other series of advocacy campaigns to ensure the cleanliness and improved hygiene for the environment. He decried the current situation wherein many operators in the sector fail to establish proper organisational structure to assure enduring business operations with potential for transcending generations. Effective regulation, he said, will increase investment in the sector, encourage professionalism, and unlock its massive economic potential in addition to the desired health and environmental benefits. Stressing the urgent need for the strengthening, standardization and regulation of the cleaning and hygiene industry, Ayeye said the improvement in environmental hygiene will reduce significantly some health problems in Nigeria. On his part, the Country Business Director,  Afolabi Abrahams, said the company, which employs over 10,000 people, is currently structured into three strategic  business units, namely, commercial and industrial cleaning, integrated pest management  and fumigation, and industrial laundry. He stressed the need for organizations, especially in the food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, healthcare and other sectors where what is required is not just washing but treatment and decontamination to be more circumspect in the handling of factory uniforms, as this may have severe deleterious impact if unprofessionally handled and contamination occurs. He decried the current situation where certain organisations still allow staff to handle their work garments off premises without any control on the process of washing. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .