Oyo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. B.V.A. Bello (left); Deputy Governor, Rauf Olaniyan; Special Adviser on Health, Dr. Funmi Salami and UNICEF Country Representative, Dr. Tushar Rane, during the launch of T’omo Ti’ya reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child healthcare initiative, at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan… yesterday. Inaugurates committees to oversee reproductive programmes
Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde, yesterday, launched the ‘T’omo T’ìya’ (child and mother) initiative aimed at reducing infant and maternal mortality rate in the state. The programme, which was inaugurated at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan (UI), was equally targeted at improving the quality of reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child healthcare. Makinde, who was represented by his deputy, Rauf Olaniyan, said that the initiative, would, among other things, reduce maternal mortality rate by 30 per cent and neonatal mortality rate by 20 per cent. While inaugurating the steering and technical working committees, the governor stated that the committees would oversee all the Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (RMNCH) programmes in the state and give insight into the direction things should go. Besides, he assured that the state, through the initiative, would meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) III, which targets improving maternal health. The governor said that the state would begin a pilot testing of some of the programmes under the initiative, noting that the state will meet the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation of four or more antenatal care visits during pregnancy. He said: “We hope to start piloting some of the programmes under this initiative in the shortest possible time. One of the important things we will be advocating is meeting the WHO recommendation of four or more antenatal care visits during pregnancy. The statistics show that when pregnant women are able to make at least four visits, the major complications that account for nearly 75 per cent of all maternal deaths are prevented.” He, therefore, lauded the implementing partners for accepting to be members of the initiative. Speaking earlier, the state’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello, said the initiative was meant to ensure the welfare of the women before, during and after birth, particularly the new life they are bringing forth. Also, Special Adviser to the Governor on Health, Dr. Funmi Salami, said the initiative would contribute to a healthier and more prosperous society, as healthy babies grow into healthy adults who thrive and can contribute to their society.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .