After the buzz that greeted his earlier announcement to drop a new work this year, the music world, yesterday, witnessed the release Way Home by Multi-platinum Afro-soul star Darey Art Alade. The follow-up to 2015 project Naked, Way Home is a triumphant return for one of Nigeria’s most revered artists. The upbeat, seven-track release includes recent singles Jah Guide Me, which went to #1 in the Nigerian charts and entered the Top 20 of the UK iTunes Charts, and Jojo, the infectious summer party jam featuring reggae-dancehall artist Patoranking, which has so far garnered over 1.3 million streams across DSPs. Forthcoming single Show Me Love, featuring fellow Nigerian star Teni, is another highlight, before things closed out by the inspirational vibes of title track, Way Home. “The Way Home EP, being my first music release in a few years, is quite significant to me” Darey explains. “Considering that I have been focusing on other creative business pursuits, this body of work sonically captures a return to my roots…Music! The soundscape throughout the 7 songs is a blend I call Afro & B. It captures a diverse array of musical experiences, from my early days singing in my Church choir, to the rhythmic vibes of my Nigerian heritage, and fuses Afrobeat and Afropop, with elements of R n’ B, Soul and Reggae.” On the EP’s message, Darey affirms: “As we navigate these challenging and uncertain times, the underlying theme transmitted through the sound and content supporting the project, is for us as the human family, and particularly for people of African descent anywhere in the World to remember our roots, and find our way home.” The son of legendary African jazz musician and entertainer Art Alade, Darey Art Alade aka Darey is a multiple award-winning artist and seasoned live performer who has shared stages with the likes of Beyoncé, Wizkid, Jay Z, Ciara, Cardi B, Burna Boy, Sean Paul, Usher, R Kelly, Akon, Lionel Richie and many more. His rich, diverse back catalogue has racked up millions of record sales and streams, helping him amass a loyal following across Africa and beyond.
 
Also a creative entrepreneur, Darey is the co-founder of Livespot360, a creative collective responsible for last year’s Livespot X Festival which saw Darey bring Cardi B to Africa for the first time as she headlined across its Lagos and Accra events. Recorded and released while the world is in lockdown, Way Home is a much-needed dose of uplifting musical escapism.