 A technician fixes a power supply cable on a pole in Ilupeju district of Lagos, on September 8, 2020. – The Nigerian government has dumped a decade-long pricing regime for petrol and electricity allowing marketers to fix prices resulting in anger and tension in the oil-rich Africa’s most populous country of 200 million people. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  As Nigeria celebrates its 60th independence anniversary today, electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) have stressed the importance of improved power supply in driving the nation’s economy. In its message, the DisCos assured Nigerians of improved power supply, prompt response to customers’ complaints, and quick resolution of the metering gap in the country. Specifically, Chief Executive Officer of the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company (IBEDC), John Ayodele, said the sacrifices and ideologies of the nation’s founding fathers should remain the watchword for a united and an indivisible country. Also, Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) felicitated with Nigerians on her 60th Independence Anniversary. In a statement issued by the General Manager, Corporate Communications, Godwin Idemudia, he described the independence anniversary as a milestone worthy of celebrating as individuals and as a nation. In a similar vein, experts in the Nigeria Maritime sector have rated the industry low in terms of its contribution to economic development, while blaming the government’s lack of prioritisation for the crumbling maritime sector. The experts lamented that insecurity, poor infrastructure, unsustainable policies, and misplaced priorities, among others, had bedeviled the sector thereby preventing it from the desired growth when compared to other countries. President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licenced Customs Agents, Lucky Amiwero, who spoke with The Guardian in Lagos, rated the maritime as one of the worst in the world due to different issues that had bedeviled the sectors, which the country was yet to rectify. Also yesterday, telecommunications operators felicitated with Nigerians on the country’s 60th independence anniversary and urged government at all levels, especially the Federal Government to expedite action on improving the country’s infrastructure. Speaking under the auspices of the Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), they said non-availability of other support infrastructures, such as good access roads, constant power supply, and security, have negatively impacted on the development and success of the industry. ALTON Chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, said power supply from the national grid remained a major challenge, adding, “security of telecommunication critical network elements and access denial for the deployment of expansion and maintenance access due to the actions of some government agencies in an attempt for forceful revenue collection remains some of our major challenges.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .