Experts in the global oil industry have called for the adoption of technology and data analytics to boost the sector recovery post-COVID-19, noting that the pandemic has accelerated technology adoption as an integral component of projects and cost-reduction measures.
 
Speaking during a webinar organised by Microsoft in conjunction with Africa Oil & Power, themed: “Leveraging the Power of Technology for Oilfield Optimisation,” the experts said digital applications are capable of uniting real-time data with advanced analytics, to improve decision-making, and boost efficiency and sustainability.  Khan said: “Technology has become cheaper and more accessible. The cost of deploying technology is now a minor expenditure in a project. Technology is most efficient when looked at as an integral part of the project. Implementing a holistic vision would allow decision-makers to implement technology in a stable and rational way, with immense rewards down the way.  He noted that customers need to move away from the short-term financial aspect and focus on the lifecycle of the project, which could have up to 30 years lifespan. He said: “COVID-19 has brought peak oil closer. Demand for oil is set to decrease continuously from here. This situation stresses the importance of lower costs in all aspects of the petroleum business, like material selection, improved research and development, and remote work. All these crucial topics could and must be supported by technology.” WW Energy Industry Core Team/Industry Digital Strategist at Microsoft, Osama Hanna, said following government regulations regarding well maintenance, Microsoft implemented a real-time monitoring solution to proactively detect corrosion, ultimately reducing corrosion by up to 46 per cent, thus avoiding a potential “plug and abandon” down the road.
 
He highlighted efficiency as the central topic for the post-COVID era, noting that efficiency would be a key challenge for all operators in the petroleum space.
 
“The price of a barrel is decided by the market, but companies can have an impact on their operational expenditure by optimising efficiency across the value chain, whether we speak about human resources, equipment, technology and so on,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .