 Inspector General of Police  Mr Mohammed Adamu PHOTO: Twitter  Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, yesterday, ordered increased surveillance and security deployments across the country to forestall possible breach of peace and ensure hitch-free celebrations in all states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). He urged Nigerians to go about the celebrations without fear or apprehension, noting that the commissioners of police (CPs) and Assistant Inspectors-General of Police (AIGs) have been directed to ensure the safety and security of the public space in their Areas of Responsibilities (AOR). The strategic officers would strengthen the visibility of policing structure and carry out confidence-building patrols, especially around residential areas, major highways, government, and private infrastructure to prevent untoward situations. Besides, Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Reverend Alfred Adewale Martins, said much was still required from Nigeria’s leadership to warrant celebration, lamenting that successive government had failed to address insecurity and disunity in the country. Martins said that it was a shame that after getting independence 60 years ago, Nigeria still lacked quality leadership needed to ensure peaceful co-existence, economic prosperity, and security of lives and property. Also reacting to the event, General Superintendent of the Holy Spirit Mission, Bishop Charles Ighele, said a nation that had gone the way of Nigeria actually had nothing to celebrate. Presiding Bishop of Calvary Kingdom Church International, Lagos, Archbishop Joseph Imariabe Ojo, who advised Nigerians against the celebrating independence, but mark its remembrance, described Nigeria as Solomon’s little sister in the Bible, whose growth was impeded by several factors. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government opted for a low-key celebration due to the ravaging effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, in a statement, disclosed that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu directed that the planned parade and other activities that would involve the gathering of over 50 persons should be cancelled. He, however, congratulated Lagos people on the independence celebration and advised them to celebrate quietly at home and pray for the country, adding, “They should also observe COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks to protect themselves and their loved ones.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .