Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, said the task of reforming the police was achievable through the cooperation of all. He made the submission while inaugurating a seven-member Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution on Police Abuses at State House, Marina. He said: “Through our collective actions, we will ensure that all wounds are healed, justice is served, and every guilty police officer is prosecuted.” The committee, which is to investigate cases of brutality and human rights violations committed by operatives of the dissolved Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in the state, has Justice Doris Okuwobi (rtd) as its head. Other members of the panel that would sit for six months are Ebun Adegboruwa (SAN) – representing Civil Society; Taiwo Lakanu (a retired Deputy Inspector General of Police); Patience Udoh (civil society); Segun Awosanya (human rights activist) and Olutoyin Odusanya  (Director, Lagos Citizens Mediation Centre). The rest are two representatives of the protesting youths and a representative of the National Human Rights Commission. IN the same vein, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, yesterday, said the Delta Government would establish a Special Victims’ Support Fund for compensation of deserving victims of police brutality and related killings in the state. He made the announcement in Asaba while setting up an eight-member panel to investigate rights abuses in Delta. The governor noted that the constitution of the team was in line with the directive of the National Economic Council (NEC) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. He charged the body to bring justice to the victims. The panel is head by Justice Celestina Ogisi (rtd), while Omamuzo Erebe is secretary. Other members include AIG David Igbodo (rtd), Harrison Gwannishu, Comrade Godwin Oyovweadjebore, Freedom Atsepoyi, Ambassador Eris Jewo–Ibi and Alpheus Ngwu. IN Owerri, the Imo State capital, Governor Hope Uzodimma has raised a 15-member probe panel for same exercise. In a statement signed yesterday by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, Justice Duruoha Igwe (rtd) was named the chairman, while Chris Obialor is the secretary. Also on the committee are Allenbi Onyemaechi; Chima Anozie; President National Youth Council of Nigeria, Imo State, Chief Titus Ogboma and Belusochukwu Nwere. Others include Chairman, Christian Council of Nigeria, Imo State, Victor Nwachukwu; President, National Council of Women’s Societies, Imo State, as well as representatives of youths in the three senatorial districts of the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .