VGN boss charges officers neutrality
HURIWA advocates international sanctions on FG The founder, Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), Chief Afe Babalola, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to halt crackdown on protesters, which has led to death of innocent Nigerians. Babalola, who condemned the onslaught against the protesters, said all the steps being taken at present were not the solution, urging Buhari to address the youths protesting against police brutality. The legal luminary made the plea in a statement in Ado Ekiti, entitled ‘Call on President Buhari to address pains of the nation’. Meanwhile, former Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State has blamed Buhari for the killing at Lekki Tollgate.
Fayose, in a statement by his media aide, Lere Olayinka, however, sympathise with families of those who lost their lives and prayed God to heal the injured. AS the protests degenerate across the country, the Commander General, Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN), Navy Capt. Umar Bakori, has directed its officers and men to remain neutral and maintain law and order. In a memo dated October 20, 2020 and made available to The Guardian in Abuja, Bakori said: “in the light of the recent protest and its further degeneration, with hoodlums overtaking the protests, all officers and men of VGN are hereby required to remain neutral and ensure self preservation and safety.” BUT Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) has urged the United States to designate the current federal administration in Abuja as a sponsor of terror and take steps to stop the state-sponsored attacks against civilian protesters. In a statement in Abuja yesterday, the National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, lamented that the Federal Government responded to the peaceful protests against police brutality with more violence and abuse. The group also called for independent investigation into the army’s alleged attacks on peaceful protesters at Lekki Tollgate in which scores of innocent youths were gunned down. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .