 Delta State Deputy  Governor,  Kingsley Burutu Otuaro, presenting the Staff of Office to the newly crowned monarch of Idjerhe Kingdom, Obukohwo Arthur Monday Whiskey (Udurhie 1), at Jesse Town.  Newly crowned Ovie (king) of Idjerhe Kingdom, HRM Monday Obukohwo Whiskey Udurhie 1, has urged the Federal Government to pay attention to Jesse Community, which was ravaged by explosion that claimed over 1000 lives 22 years ago. He lamented that the Pipelines and Products Marketing Company (PPMC), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), commenced building a hospital in the area, but abandoned it following alleged failure of PPMC to pay the contractor 15 years ago. Whiskey stated this after the Deputy Governor of Delta State, Kingsley Otuaro, who represented Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, presented him his staff of authority in Jesse on Monday. He told The Guardian yesterday that Jesse people had waited too long for the completion of the hospital, adding that the kingdom was in dire need of higher institutions, standard health facility and skill acquisition centre. “Idjerhe Kingdom is far behind in development because we have been neglected for several years. A kingdom with many primary schools and eight secondary schools has no single higher institution where the children can further their education. “Jesse town, with over 20,000 people, has no standard health centre. Till date, what we have here is the old maternity for children. We contribute a lot to the nation’s economy and Idjerhe Kingdom deserves better attention from the Federal Government,” he stated. He also explained that the Idjerhe Kingdom was ready to reconcile aggrieved persons in the events leading to his being crowned the new king, adding that he would pursue peace and stability in Idjerhe Kingdom during his reign for which he would soon set up some committees to mend fences. MEANWHILE, indigenes of Jesse community resident in Asaba, under the aegis of Jesse Elites Forum (JEF) Asaba branch, have described Whiskey, as an epitome of knowledge and wisdom. They said his ascension to the throne was divine, stressing that his knowledge and wisdom was needed for the advancement and development of Idjerhe Kingdom. In a statement in Asaba, Chairman and Secretary of the forum, Godwin Oghenedoro and Lucky Oyibo, also described him as ‘wise and courageous.’
maintaining that his selection, coronation and presentation of staff of office by the Delta State Government was a clear testimony of his acceptability in the kingdom. It added that Idjerhe Kingdom, being the second largest kingdom in Urhoboland, with over 40 communities and blessed with abundant natural resources, needed a man with outstanding qualities to further advance the tradition, culture and bond of unity and harmonious coexistence among its sub-clans. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .