With Halloween fast approaching, fascination with the supernatural is set to peak. From debating the cause of a strange blur in a photo or who a vague figure in the background could be, ‘haunted’ imagery is one way the paranormal world continues to capture our imagination.  Canon (www.Canon-CNA.com) has partnered with renowned still life photographer and Canon Ambassador, Eberhard Schuy, alongside Professor Chris French, an expert in the psychology of paranormal beliefs at Goldsmiths University London, to show people how they can capture the unexpected, as well as debunk the myths surrounding some of the most widely debated haunted photos [1].  #1 – Levitating Objects
Canon Ambassador Eberhard Schuy explains how he created this striking photo (Image 1) of a levitating chair, “This image consists of two exposures, one with the chair balancing on a tripod and the other without, so I was able to easily retouch the photo and cover everything that I didn't want to show in the image.”  Professor French says, “In the early days, photography itself was seen as a mysterious process and the discovery that double exposures – as shown by Eberhard Schuy’s photo of the girl with the levitating chair – along with other darkroom tricks could be used to produce ghostly images was soon exploited by a number of notorious fraudsters of the day.”  Eberhard provides an easy alternative to using double exposure to create this image, instead showing how cheap fishing line can achieve a similar affect, noting, “For lighter objects I use very thin fishing lines on which I hang the objects. The line is so fine that you almost never have to retouch the picture.”  Extras required: #2 – Phantom figures
Floating apparitions appearing behind unsuspecting individuals is typical of haunted images, however is everything as it seems in these paranormal pictures?  According to Professor French, there is no need to worry about ghostly figures appearing from behind in images stating, “Despite much criticism and numerous exposures of deliberate fraud, spirit photography had strong support from many people early on. The image here of an ethereal woman’s face floating above the two sitters (Image 2), taken around 1920, is almost certainly a deliberate fake, probably by proven hoaxer William Hope. Close inspection of the photo of Ellen Nammell (Image 3) reveals that this is almost certainly another example of double exposure, possibly unintentional.”  It’s easy enough to produce photos of apparitions like the one above, as shown by Eberhard Schuy’s Dancing Girl (Image 4). For a simple solution to creating transparent portraits of friends or family, he suggests using a small pane of glass:  Extras required: #3 – The ghost on the stairs
Looking at the picture of the alleged ghost of Sir Robert Peel (Image 5), Professor French states, “A number of artefacts can lead to spooky images being produced by the camera itself or else the processing involved. These include long exposures giving ghostly images of someone walking through the scene, camera straps being caught in the flash resulting in mysterious “energy swirls”, and so-called “orbs” produced when specks of dust are caught out-of-focus in the flash.”  For those fascinated by the supposed ghost of Sir Robert Peel, Eberhard shares his advice on how to turn friends into seemingly stair-dwelling spirits:  Extras required: #4 – Circling spirits
In his own interpretation of the ghost on the stairs, Canon photographer Eberhard Schuy takes a more abstract approach to create the swirling spirit (Image 6).  “For this technique I use a very light white cloth and asked my daughter to stand at the top of the stairwell and drop it, spreading the sheet a little so that it slowly sailed downwards. Using a tripod to take the picture, I could use long exposure times creating this mysterious form without blurring the rest of the picture,” says Eberhard.  For those wanting to try it for themselves at home, Eberhard recommends using four simple steps to capture these circling spirits:  Extras required: Amine Djouahra, Sales and Marketing Director at Canon Central and North Africa says, “Many will undoubtedly remember 2020 to be the year that COVID-19 changed and shaped our lives forever. Some things gratefully remain the same. At Canon, we always try to engage with our customers at every occasions such as Halloween, that continues to give people reason to dress up, have fun and celebrate. While this year may not be the normal way of celebrating, many still look forward to fun scary outfits, enjoying trick or treat and decorating their homes- the spookier the better.  Canon’s creative (https://Creativepark.Canon) park has a plethora of ideas to make this a perfect, yet safe and fun Halloween. Download our spooky Halloween house pop up card, make a magician’s hat and even photo booth props. All of this can be created with our range of products from printers, paper and cameras, ensuring that your memories are captured forever. Wishing you a spook-tacular Halloween!’  To capture your own spooky snaps at home, check out Canon’s range of digital cameras and lenses. From the lightweight and versatile EOS 250D (https://bit.ly/35LEoz9), perfect for those venturing into interchangeable lens cameras, or the powerful EOS 850D (https://bit.ly/35H3dMR) for aspiring professionals. [1] Images 2, 3 and 5 are sourced from Getty images and have no supporting metadata to identify camera make or model used to capture the photo. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA). Media Contact:
Canon Central and North Africa
Mai Youssef
e. Mai.youssef@canon-me.com APO Group – PR Agency
Rania ElRafie
e. Rania.ElRafie@apo-opa.com About Canon Central and North Africa:
Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) (www.Canon-CNA.com) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2015 was a strategic step that aimed to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. CCNA also demonstrates Canon’s commitment to operating closer to its customers and meeting their demands in the rapidly evolving African market. Canon has been represented in the African continent for more than 15 years through distributors and partners that have successfully built a solid customer base in the region. CCNA ensures the provision of high quality, technologically advanced products that meet the requirements of Africa’s rapidly evolving marketplace. With over 100 employees, CCNA manages sales and marketing activities across 44 countries in Africa. Canon’s corporate philosophy is Kyosei – ‘living and working together for the common good’. CCNA pursues sustainable business growth, focusing on reducing its own environmental impact and supporting customers to reduce theirs using Canon’s products, solutions and services. At Canon, we are pioneers, constantly redefining the world of imaging for the greater good. Through our technology and our spirit of innovation, we push the bounds of what is possible – helping us to see our world in ways we never have before. We help bring creativity to life, one image at a time. Because when we can see our world, we can transform it for the better. For more information: www.Canon-CNA.com. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .