PDP National Women Leader, Hajiya Mariya Waziri(left); Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde and National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Uche Secondus, during a condolence visit by the National Executive Committee of PDP to Gov. Makinde, over the death of his mother, Madam Abigail Makinde, in Ibadan…yesterday PHOTO:NAN Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State yesterday described his late mother, Chief (Mrs.) Abigail Omojolagbe Makinde, as an epitome of love and humility. Makinde stated this while receiving the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Sencondus, on a condolence visit to his house at Ikolaba GRA, Ibadan. The governor expressed gratitude to the PDP NWC, noting that the fact that the leadership of the party made it to Ibadan barely 24 hours after his mother’s demise showed the love they had for him. Apart from the PDP NWC entourage, the Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Edo and Delta States, Alhaji Daud Akinola; Chief Imam of Ibadanland, Sheikh AbdulGaniyy Abubakri Agbotomokekere, the Grand Mufti of Ibadanland, Sheikh Abdul Fatai Alaga and other Muslim leaders also paid condolence visits to the governor. Similarly, the Oyo State Judiciary led by the Chief Judge of the State, Justice Muntar Abimbola, and the General Officer Commanding, 2 Division, Nigerian Army, Ibadan, Maj. Gen. Anthony Omozoje, were also at Makinde’s residence to condole with him. Speaking while receiving the PDP entourage, which included the National Organising Secretary, Col. Austin Akobundu (retd); Deputy National Secretary; National Financial Secretary, Alhaji Abdullahi MaiBasira; National Woman Leader, Hajia Mariya Waziri; National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan as well as a leader of the PDP from Osun State, Hon. Soji Adagunodo; Governor Makinde said the family remains grateful to God for the life their mother led. He said: “I want to thank you most sincerely for this condolence visit. I want to say, on behalf of myself, my wife, immediate family and extended family that we are very grateful and appreciative of this visit. This happened yesterday morning and you are here this morning. It shows that you truly love me. So, I want to say thank you. “Actually, we were preparing for my mummy’s 81st birthday, which would have been on November 7, exactly three weeks from yesterday. But who are we to question God? “We are grateful to God for the life she lived. To us, she was an epitome of love and humility. She was tough. If you see that trait in some of us, it came from her. And we also thank God that it was not like we were carrying her from one hospital to the other. She died peacefully in her sleep. So, we thank God for what He has done.” Earlier, the PDP national chairman, Secondus, said the visit was to condole with the governor and the family for the loss of their mother. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .