NGE seeks protection of journalists
Media stakeholders, yesterday, decried the attacks on Television Continental (TVC), Lagos Television (LTV), The Nation Newspapers office and journalists, insisting that there was an urgent need for adequate security of media houses. A lecturer with the Mass Communication Department, Bayero University, Kano, Prof. Umaru Pate, said: “Media houses are sensitive areas and as such all organisations must fortify security in their premises. “Media outfits must not be places where anybody can just walk in and cause damage. There should be barricade that makes it difficult for people to enter. We must also engage in proper risk management. Most media organisations don’t have risk management policies, but having such policies can help journalists to make positive decisions that can protect them or minimise the level of risk. On his part, a former Minister of Information and Culture, Prince Tony Momoh, said: “I love watching TVC like many other Nigerians, especially their “Journalists Hangout” or “Your View,” but it is unhealthy when vested interests intervene in things that are healthy. “We need to restructure Nigeria. The youths started the protests well, which I supported. The genuineness of their concerns for better police and other deprived people was clear. Unfortunately, vested interests set in. What is happening is also spiritual and an end time event.” Also, Executive Director of the International Press Centre (IPC), Lanre Arogundade, cautioned against molestation of journalists and other media professionals either by security agents, mobs or protesters, saying such act was unacceptable. “The media and journalists have the right to report the current crisis in the country with a view to bringing truthful account to the citizens and under no circumstances should they be subjected to hardship in the course of doing that. We therefore condemn totality the various attacks so far recorded.” Similarly, the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) said restriction of movement in parts of the country was not a directive to law enforcements agents to harass and intimidate journalists, who are usually on the frontlines during periods of crisis. Its President, Mustapha Isah warned that the NGE would not tolerate the harassment of journalists, insisting that they should be allowed access to places of interest, as they strive under an atmosphere of insecurity to do their job. It also condemned the killing of protesters, adding that President Muhammadu Buhari should address the nation to calm frayed nerves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .