Muhammadu Buhari President Muhammadu Buhari has assured Nigerians and the international community that the October 10, 2020 governorship election in Ondo State would be credible, peaceful and transparent. Buhari said this in a video message to party supporters at the grand finale of the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign held in Akure, yesterday. He declared that all necessary measures had been put in place to provide adequate security to forestall any breach of the peace by unscrupulous elements. He also expressed confidence that the party supporters would vote according to the laws guiding the electoral process, urging the electorate to turn out en masse to vote without fear of molestation. According to him: “I have no doubt that our candidate is a good brand for the APC to market. I am particularly delighted by his ingenious approach to governance. His performance within the limits of available resources is endearing, just as he has taken the state to an enviable level and on the path of prosperity. Having had the privilege of commissioning some of his projects, which I consider enduring legacies, I join you here today to declare that Governor Akeredolu deserves to be re-elected to consolidate the good work he commenced in his first term. “I am not just proud of his achievements, I am confident he will enjoy the mandate of the good people of Ondo State for the second term.” On the party’s campaign, the President said he was encouraged by the large turnout at the grand finale, noting that he had keenly followed events in the state as regards the governorship election. “I salute the courage and the demonstrated capacity of the National Caretaker and Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee under the leadership of Mai Mala Buni. I thank you for conducting a hitch-free party primary in Ondo State. I congratulate the APC family in Ondo State on this uncommon display of brotherliness, candour and doggedness. “May I therefore salute all other governorship aspirants, who accepted the outcome of the primary election and decided to work for the success of the candidate and incumbent, Governor Akeredolu. Their patriotic and selfless conduct shall serve as an enduring reference point in party politics.” Other dignitaries present at the rally were the Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Tayo Alasoadura; Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Boroffice; Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Sylva Timipre and former Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun, among others. The Chairman of the APC Governors’ Forum, Governor Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State, implored the people to cast their votes for APC to sustain the achievements recorded by the Akeredolu-led administration in the state. Also, the Chairman of APC National Campaign Committee for Ondo State Election and Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, urged the party supporters not to fight but vote, saying they should defend their votes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .