The N-Power Youth Congress (N-PYC) has demanded reinstatement of the disengaged 500,000 beneficiaries across the country and the N500b paid to them as exit package. N-PYC’s National Coordinator, Joseph Enan Maigari, made the request at a media briefing in Maiduguri, Borno State at the weekend, saying: “This is the third briefing on the matter, yet, the Federal Government has refused to listen to our demands.” He said if the Federal Government could not absorb the disengaged beneficiaries, it should pay N500b grant to the 500,000 youths as exit package. “I followed President Muhammadu Buhari’s address to the nation last Thursday in his response to #EndSARS protesters’ demands, but nothing was said about the 500,000 youth,” he said. On the President’s campaign promises, he said: “Once Again, we are reminding President Buhari of his promises to us. The youth will not relent until their demands are met,” adding that 36 states representatives of N-Power beneficiaries had earlier made their demands. Lamenting their disengagements, he said: “We were struggling in different spheres of life to make a living. We were also meant to quit the things we were doing, before being engaged in the N-Power scheme. The Federal Government also pledged to absorb the youth after winding up the scheme.” He noted that the youth were made to serve the country with a monthly stipend of N30, 000, adding that the monthly allowance could not meet their families’ basic needs, including school fees, electricity and water bills. “Absorb those that want to work with the Federal Government or give them a reasonable exit package to enable them to venture into other enterprises.” He said Boko Haram insurgents were empowered under the auspices of “Repentant Boko Haram, adding: “The innocent and harmless 500,000 beneficiaries have been crying every day, but no one listens to our cries. They will, however, continue to be law-abiding citizens.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .