In recent times, Ibadan Golf Club (IGC) has grown to become one of the most attractive venues for the beautiful game. It is one of the few clubs in Nigeria that attract players, both amateur and professionals, from across the country because it offers patrons memorable times. Players acknowledge that the club always has something for all categories of players no matter their style and character. And so it was no surprise that over 250 players from far and wide thronged the club at the weekend for the captains’ inaugural tournament, which ushered in Ola Ibironke, popularly known as Dudud Heritage, and Mary Okunola as the men’s and ladies captains of the club respectively. At the end of the funfilled action, Lekan Ogunbameru earned the right to raise his shoulders when he dusted the field to win the tournament held at the prestigious club located in the Onireke area of the ancient city. Ogunbameru, a staff of University College Hospital (UCH) and a member of IGC, who earned handicap 3.3 after his outing returned with scores of 74 gross, 70 Net count back to emerge winner of the tournament. He beat Amubioya A to the first position with 81 gross 70 net. Apart from the golf enjoyed by the players and visitors to the club, IGC also offered those present a variety of entertainment and time to catch on events in and outside the club. And then the new captain made an exciting promise. Taking over from the industrious Col. Sunmonu, who took IGC a notch higher than its peers, Ibironke’s promise that he would raise the bar further was sweet music to all present. He added, “My being the 24th captain of IGC, to me, is ordained by God. It is part of what I am meant to fulfill in life because I never wanted to play golf, talk less of becoming the Captain. As a matter of fact, I was forced to join the Club by my very good friend, Prince Bayo Adeleke. “I must recognise good gestures of some members, and that is why I must thank the duo of Architect Olukayode Fakunle and Rasheed Adekunle Adigun that constructed the resting place on hole 18, which serves 15, 16, and 17 when it rains or when we want to relax while waiting for the advance team. “How can I not remember my friends Otunba Abimbola Davis, Asiwaju Olumide Osunsina, Efe Edward, CP Dejo Oyelowo Rtd, and others that rallied around us by donating money to make sure that the whole clubhouse was fumigated in preparation for our opening after initial lockdown. And Dare Adeleke who gave the first financial donation to open the rough of hole 4 which gave way to other donations towards the clearing of other rough on the course.” Also speaking at the event, the Lady Captain, Mrs. Mary Okunola, thanked the sponsors of the tournament and the Ladies Section of the club for their support. Echoing Sport Psychologist, Dr. Bob Rotella, Okunola said, “Golf is about how well you accept, respond to, and score with your misses much more so that it is a game of your perfect shots. “Like all the sports, the game requires patience and discipline, and it is what has been displayed by us all in this competition. That is why I must thank you all for your esteemed presence here at IGC for this epic golf event.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .