 [FILES] A medic sanitises the ambulance after transfering a patient on a stretcher outside of Emergency at Coral Gables Hospital where Coronavirus patients are treated in Coral Gables near Miami, on July 30, 2020. – Florida has emerged as a major new epicenter of the US battle against the disease, with confirmed cases recently surpassing New York and now second only to California. The state toll has leapt over the past week and more than 6,500 people have died from the disease there, according to health officials. More than 460,000 people have been infected with the virus in Florida, which has a population of 21 million, and a quarter of the state’s cases are in Miami. The US has tallied a total of 151,826 deaths from COVID-19, making it the hardest-hit country in the world. (Photo by CHANDAN KHANNA / AFP)  The country reported 88,973 new infections between 8:30 pm Friday and 8:30 pm Saturday, the figures showed, substantially above the previous day’s 79,963. A total of 8,568,625 cases have been reported in the United States with 224,751 deaths, the highest in the world in absolute terms. The worst current outbreaks in the country are in the north and midwest, and some 35 of the 50 states are seeing an increase in case numbers. The number of deaths over 24 hours has remained broadly stable since the beginning of autumn, with between 700 and 800. On Saturday the US recorded 906 deaths, the Johns Hopkins tracker showed. President Donald Trump has sought to beat back harsh criticism of his handling of the health crisis ahead of the November 3 election, particularly from his Democratic opponent Joe Biden. On Saturday, former president Barack Obama tore into the Trump White House’s approach to the pandemic, telling a drive-in rally in Florida that “the idea that somehow this White House has done anything but completely screw this thing up is nonsense.” Trump has sought to play down the virus despite having contracted and recovered from it himself, saying businesses should reopen so the country’s economy can recover. “This election is a choice between a Trump super-recovery and a Biden depression,” he told supporters in North Carolina on Saturday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .