Isiguzoro • Demonstration not initiative of Igbo race, say Ndigbo youths
• CP denies Fulani planning to attack Abia indigenes
• Four officers killed, two injured during EndSARS protests, says Anambra police boss The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council (OYC) has debunked claim by Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) of killing of northerners in southern part of the country. National Publicity Secretary of ACF, Mr. Emmanuel Yawe, said that over 30 persons had been killed and over 50 trucks and trailers belonging to northerners were destroyed since the EndSARS protests turned violent in the South. But in a statement in Abakaliki, the National President OYC, Okechukwu Isiguzo, said that the claim was baseless, describing it as a ruse and ploy to complicate issues and incite violence against southerners in the North. The youth wing of Ohanaeze Ndigbo has debunked speculations that the #EndSARS protests embarked upon by youths in different parts of the country were initiative of the Igbo race. It, therefore, cautioned against “unguarded utterances of some persons aimed at further widening the fault lines of the Nigerian State by pitching peaceful brothers into a state of bellicose.” A statement by the National Youth Leader, Arthur Obiora, stated the EndSARS demonstration was a Pan-Nigerian affair by youths from across all ethnic biases, stressing that any statement to the contrary should be discountenanced. IN another development, Abia State Police Commissioner, Mrs. Janet Agbede, yesterday, debunked report that Fulani were planning to attack Abia indigenes. She said that the rumour was not only false, but the handwork of those intending to cause more tension and confusion across the state. She, therefore, urged law abiding citizens and residents in the state to go about their lawful businesses, assuring them that the law enforcement agencies will protect lives and property both now, during and after the ember months. The CP, who spoke during an interaction with journalists in her office, said that #EndSARS protesters brutally murdered two police officers at Aba, beheaded and burnt one of them to ashes, among other atrocities. Some of the suspected protesters were paraded before journalists. MEANWHILE, Anambra State Police Command, yesterday, said it lost four officers while two others were injured by hoodlums under the guise of the EndSARS protests in the state last week. The state’s Commissioner of Police (CP), John B. Abang, disclosed this at the Command Headquarters, Amawbia, while parading 17 suspects arrested for looting and malicious damage to government and private property in the state during the protests. He further said that the hoodlums set ablaze 11 police stations, burnt over 20 vehicles, including patrol and exhibit vehicles, as well as an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC), among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .