SPIDEL Chairman, Dr Paul Ananaba (SAN) •Rep urges Buhari to intervene, may drag killers to ICC
•Shariah council seeks justice for victims The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Section on Public Interest and  Development Law (SPIDEL) has called for an immediate and transparent investigation, arrest and prosecution of authorities and persons responsible for the shooting at peaceful protesters at Lekki Tollgate, Lagos. In a statement by SPIDEL Chairman, Dr Paul Ananaba (SAN), the lawyers contended that there was no incident at the tollgate to warrant deployment of soldiers under the rules of engagement. “The protesters were shot at while sitting down and clearly holding national flags and singing the national anthem. It was a breach of the army doctrine to shoot at
them,” the group said. According to the association, removal of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, switching off lightings at the tollgate and attack on protesters after dark all point to a deliberate attack. Aside releasing all detained protesters, the NBA urged the Federal Government to honour all the victims of the massacre as heroes of democracy, declaring October 20 of every year as a National Day of Mourning, and giving a national burial and adequate compensation to families of the victims. PEOPLES Democratic Party (PDP) lawmaker representing Obio/Akpor Constituency in Rivers State, Kingsley Chinda, has enjoined President Muhammadu Buhari to wade into the killings of protesters against the activities of the defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). After PDP caucus emergency meeting in Abuja yesterday, he  condemned the brazen attack on harmless citizens who were only exercising their fundamental rights as
enshrined in the constitution. Calling for the withdrawal of soldiers from the streets of Lagos and other parts of the country, he urged the Federal Government to meet the agitators’ demands with immediate effect. Chinda hinted that it would activate legislative actions to salvage the situation and ensure that all those involved in the killings face trial at the International Criminal Court (ICC), in the event Buhari failed to listen. MEANWHILE, the Supreme Council for Shariah in Nigeria (SCSN) has enjoined the authorities to bring to justice all those involved in the attacks on innocent citizens
during the protests. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .