Ebonyi State House of Assembly yesterday gave the national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seven days ultimatum to zone the 2023 Presidential ticket to the South East zone. Speaker of the House, Hon. Francis Nwifuru, made the request while briefing journalists in Abakaliki, saying failure to adhere to the demand would cost the party heavily in the 2023 general elections. “We, the members will leave no stone unturned in taking decisive actions to ensure that traditions and dividends of democracy are respected in the party,” he said. Nwifuru, who spoke in company of 22 of the 24 lawmakers, insisted that it was the South East’s turn to takeover the leadership of the country in 2023, adding that the unity of Nigeria had always hinged on equity, justice and fairness. He explained that since the inception of democracy in 1999, the region had not produced the president despite voting for all the presidential candidates, noting, “We supported the South West in 1999 and 2003, North West in 2007, South-South in 2011, 2015 and North East in 2019, when they all contested for the presidency.” He noted that the zone parades great people who could pilot the affairs of the country like former Governor of Anambra State, Peter Obi, former President of the Senate, Anyim Pius Anyim, former Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremmadu, former governors of Imo and Abia states, Achike Udenwa and Theodore Orji, among many others. Nwifuru added that it was on record that since the inception of democracy in 1999, the five states of the South East have always delivered PDP’s presidential candidates. “We, members of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, wish to draw PDP’s attention to the yearnings of our people to the fact that the position of the President come May 29, 2023 should be zoned to the South East.” “Failure to adhere to these requests would cost the party dearly and we, members of the sixth Ebonyi State House of Assembly will leave no stone unturned in taking decisive actions to ensure that traditions and dividends of democracy are respected in the party,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .