 Turai Jaradua maternal and children Hospital.A mother with her baby with spina-bafida malformation at the special baby care unit.  Following the take-off of the Global Gag Rule (GGR) policy of the United States of America, which blocks U.S. federal funding to non-governmental organisations (NGOs) with focus on women’s reproductive health and sexual rights across the world, stakeholders in the sector have expressed concern over likely increase in maternal mortality in Nigeria. Their fears have been stoked by the gradual decline in activities of organisations that deal with women’s reproductive health and sexual rights in the country since the GGR policy took off, owing to difficulty in accessing grants from the US, a major donor nation. The Gag Rule, also known as Mexico City Policy, is an Executive Order by the US government that blocks U.S. federal funding for NGOs that provide counseling on women’s reproductive health, including advocacy to decriminalise abortion. The policy expects foreign NGOs to certify that they will not perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning, even with non-U.S funds, as a condition for receiving U.S. global family planning assistance. But as lofty as the policy appears in the control of killings through abortion, health workers and other stakeholders in women’s health, including advocacy for birth control, population explosion, sexual violence, incest and rape, say the policy has started resulting in a spike in maternal mortality across the world. This is because, according to them, the U.S remains the single largest donor country to global health efforts. “The policy is already having far-reaching effects on sexual and reproductive health and other health initiatives across the world even though it allows for exception in cases of rape, incest and life endangerment,” a leader of one of the NGOs in the country told The Guardian.
 
As it is, there are two sets of non-governmental organisations – the ones willing to sign up to the GGR and consequently, restructure their programmes, and those that declined to sign up and then forfeited their grants from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and have to seek alternative donors to fund theiroperations.
  
The implication is that some organisations whose activities were funded by USAID have to shut down because they refused to sign the GGR. Although some notable international organisations operating in Nigeria have signed up to it, as they had no options, such development is, however, impacting greatly on their operations, particularly as the Nigerian government does not fund activities of NGOs who work in the area of women’s health.  Speaking further on the implications of the GGR on Nigeria and Nigerians, Odemijie stated that some NGOs working towards reducing maternal mortality and gender-based violence can no longer fund their activities as they relied on funds from donor agencies.
 
“They are fast folding up. I know about Nigerian Urban Reproductive Health Initiative (NURHI), which was associated with a 10-percentage-point increase in the use of modern contraceptive methods and a similar increase in the desire of women to have fewer children. For whatever reason, they are leaving finally in December this year and I know that it is not unassociated with lack of fund.”
 
He added that with only N46 billion budgeted for the health sector in 2020, it would be difficult for the country to afford necessary facilities for reproductive health.
 
As the National Assembly scrutinises the 2021 budget proposal, he expressed the need for lawmakers to note that with the GGR strictly in operation, many more agencies handling women’s health-related cases are likely to fold up.
   
“Unless our government rises to the occasion, the nation is likely to witness loss of women and girls to unsafe abortions and other complications emanating from patronising quacks,” he said.
 
According to experts, the proposed N547 billion for health care, again, falls short of commitment made alongside other African nations about 19 years ago on health funding.  “There is a woman whose son got her two daughters pregnant during the lockdown. How do you address such issue? What do you do as a mother or father in that circumstance?”   To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .