 Finidi George  Finidi had expressed disappointment after been left out in the list of coaches announced last week by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to handle the various age-grade categories of the national teams. The former Super Eagles winger, who is currently the assistant manager of the Spanish side, Real Mallorca, had expressed interest to nurture the U-17 national cadet team as part of given back to the country that exposed him to the world. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Gara-Gombe expressed confidence in the list announced by the NFF, saying that they’ve had done the right thing. He added that the era of giving coaching jobs to anyone was now in the past. “The recent appointments are the right ones as far as I am concerned. I think they are fair enough because it can no longer be business as usual. If you look at the list, majority of the coaches appointed are new to the national teams. “I think we should allow the newly appointed coaches to bring their technical know-how and see what they have to offer the country. After two years or 18 months, we will know if they deserved to remain or not. This should be also like a testing ground for them to succeed,” he said, adding that the time for Finidi to also play his own part will come. “Finidi’s time too will come, but let’s also allow these coaches picked by the NFF perform before concluding on them. If the NFF chose these coaches, it is we, the Nigerians that chose them. I personally don’t think the NFF has done anything wrong with what they’ve done. “Let’s just wish the coaches well and pray that God will give them the wisdom, patience and endurance to be able to deliver in these mandates given to them. Nigeria is too big for anyone to say if you don’t give me this, this won’t work. No. Let’s us all continue to do our bid in every simple place we are, so that this country will be the best for all of us,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .