Secretary-general of a Diaspora group, Yoruba One Voice (YOV), Dr. Sina Okanlomo, has said the Oodua Republic rallies held last Thursday across the six continents of the world were significant to the destiny of the Yoruba race. In a statement, yesterday, Okanlomo applauded members of the group for their commitment to the ideals of the group, saying the successes recorded at the rallies held across all the 176 countries of the world was a big testimony that the group was determined to seek independence of the Oodua Republic without infringing on the rights of Nigerians. He added that the group had in a letter sent to institutions, including the United Nations, European Union, African Union, various embassies and the countries where rallies were held demanded a peaceful decoupling of the Yoruba territory from Nigeria. He said: “It is in the interest of the Yoruba nation to exit the current political format and build, in its place, a Yoruba nation that would live peacefully with the neighbours in accordance with international laws. “As a group of Yoruba in the Diaspora, we are entitled to our rights. There is an urgent need for a referendum as a genuine reason for us to know the basis for our existence. We have resolved to set the ball rolling. We have stated the reason for seeking the complete independence of the Oodua Republic.” Okanlomo expressed appreciation to IPOB members that joined the rallies for their solidarity and display of maturity during the exercise. Meanwhile, a group of Yoruba indigenes under the aegis of “Disciples of Oodua Republic” has also said the rallies were held in good faith and in response to the growing calls for the actualisation of Oodua Republic. Also, a self-determination coalition that comprises 24 Yoruba groups has declared that their demand for secession was based on the lopsidedness in the country’s structure and the hardship the Yoruba race has undergone since 1960. Making the call during a peaceful protest organised by the groups in Ikeja, Lagos, yesterday, Rasak Olokooba, who spoke on their behalf, said: “Since 1960, the Yoruba people have continued to endure different forms of hardship and repression beginning from the political upheavals of 1962, through the civil war when many Yoruba soldiers were forced to fight a war that had no meaning to them.” Olokooba also hinged the decision of the Southwest to secede from Nigeria on the various crimes and security threats that have ravaged the region lately allegedly being perpetrated by armed herdsmen. The group warned that any Yoruba person opposed to their demand would face the wrath of the people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .