Members of the Lagos State House of Assembly, yesterday, passed a vote of confidence in the Speaker, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, who has been facing interrogation over alleged financial infractions before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). They said that Obasa’s leadership style was worthy of emulation.The Assembly members passed the vote of confidence after the lawmaker representing Somolu Constituency 1, Rotimi Olowo, eulogised the leadership prowess of the Speaker in running the affairs of the House. Olowo said:  “I rise this afternoon to appreciate you and the Deputy Speaker for the prompt attention and response to the EndSARS protest. On Thursday, my son in Canada told me he saw you and the Deputy Speaker addressing the youths at midnight.  It shows that you are not just a leader but also a brother whom blood runs in his vein. And we all know that the youths are the strength of this nation. For you to have taken time to address the protesters, it shows you are more than a leader but a father and a builder,” he said. The lawmaker representing Surulere 1, Desmond Elliot, said the issue of lawmakers signing impeachment notice against the speaker was becoming too much, saying that the leadership should invoke the suspension of erring members. Also, Fatai Oluwa (Ajeromi Ifelodun 2), who accused Wahab Jimoh (Apapa 2) of divulging the information of the House to the media, said: “ I was part of the lawmakers who travelled to Instabul in Turkey but to my surprise in the report I read online, Wahab Jimoh’s name was not mentioned as part of beneficiaries. This shows that he was the one who was divulging information about this House to the media.” The lawmaker representing Ifako/Ijaiye I, Temitope Adewale, assured the Speaker of his loyalty, saying that before he was elected, he had known the Assembly to be peaceful. Adewale alleged that Jimoh was divulging authorised information of the House to the media, saying that he listened recently to a voice note where the alleged lawmaker told some people to search for houses owned by the Speaker in abroad. Olusola Sokunle (Oshodi-Isolo 1) said his loyalty to the Speaker remained unshakable, saying that those fingered in the act of divulging authorised information of the House to the media should be suspended. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .