The Super Eagles will meet Sierra Leone in an African Cup of Nations qualifier…on November 13. Federation may announce venue today
Players and officials of the Super Eagles will converge on November 9 to start preparations for their African Cup of Nations qualifier against Sierra Leone, an official of the federation has revealed. The match will hold in either Benin or Asaba, the official added. Super Eagles will take on Sierra Leone on November 13 in Nigeria, while the return leg will be in Freetown four days later. The FIFA international window opens on November 9. Nigeria recently started its preparation for the match with two friendly games against Algeria and Tunisia earlier this month in Austria. According to the official, who pleaded anonymity, preparations for the match has started with compilation of the list of players to be called up for the game. He said although the NFF has not decided whether the game will hold in Benin or Asaba, the coaches and support staff, as well as the players will start arriving ion the chosen venue on November 9. “The NFF is expected to decide on the venue tomorrow (today) at their executive committee meeting, but I have a feeling they may settle for Benin because of the quality of the playing stuff in the newly refurbished Sam Ogbemudia Stadium. “Coach Rohr and his staff have already decided on the players they need for the game and are just waiting for the NFF to go through the list and make it public.”
When contacted, Super Eagles Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye, could not say the exact date all the players are expected to be in camp, but he confirmed that the team have begun preparations for the November 13 game. The NFF is expected to announce the venue of the match after their meeting in Abuja today. Apart from the match, the federation is also expected to announce the resumption date of the leagues, including the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), the Nigerian National League (NNL), the amateur league and the Nigerian Women Football League. Meanwhile, Leone Stars of Sierra Leone Captain, Umaru Bangura, has tested positive for coronavirus ahead of the AFCON qualifier against Nigeria’s Super Eagles. Bangura was confirmed positive for coronavirus after his country’s international friendly against Niger last week, which they lost by a lone goal.
The player, who did not feature in the game due to injury, is already self-isolating along with the team’s fitness coach, Phillip Kor and an official, Eric Fomba, according to a statement issued by the country’s football association. Nigeria leads Group L with six points, after victories against Lesotho and Benin Republic, who are second.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .