 A Catholic priest holds a placard with the immage of Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy during a protest against his arrest in the eastern Indian state of Jharkhand for his alleged involvement in Bhima Koregao-Elgar Parishad case, in Secunderabad the twin city of Hyderabad on October 21, 2020 (Photo by NOAH SEELAM / AFP)  Its politicians especially of now have turned or better stated, are turning that mysteriously ancient country of civilisations into a Soviet/Russian Gulag where agents of the state carry out acts of terror against dissenters who they accuse of terrorism and its negative wonders of blemish. Such is the case of the Catholic Priest Reverend Father Stan Swamy, S J – meaning a member of the Society of Jesus, in other words, a Jesuit Priest. Father Swamy’s actual name is Father Stanislaus Lourdusamy who is locally, nationally, and internationally well-known as Father Stan Swamy – as already indicated. He is an ailing 83 years old man universally known today as the oldest man in India (and perhaps in the world as well) to be accused of terrorism – and who has a ten-thousand-page charge filed against him. Fellow compatriots, my fellow Nigerians must know that this physically ailing priest has the mind and heart of steel which the Indian agents of the state who are rabid security agents in the employment and service of the Indian National Investigation Agency (NIA) want to break and terminate in a cruelly indecorous manner.
  
What is the NIA’s case against Father Stan Swamy? The NIA’s agents have tagged him with the label of a Maoist, a euphemism for a die-hard never-say-die terrorist. But is this true? Certainly not! Father Stan Swamy who has been living in Jharkhand, a state in northeastern India of flourishing but oppressed minorities, has made his deserved name as a fighter for and defender of the oppressed. He fights for the poor and enslaved India. The Dalits in India who are essentially worse than the scums, scruffs, and dregs in any society are the Indian Untouchables in that unbelievable caste system plagued country. The Dalits live in nature-blessed lands but are worse than the erstwhile Osus of Igbo land of Nigeria, our beautiful country. Father Stan Swamy is an Indian one-army against man’s inhumanity to man in a country that prides itself as the biggest and greatest democracy in the world! How wrong can Prime Minister Naranda Modi be! How wrong can this leading representative of the upper caste rulers be! How indecorously wrong can Naranda be!  The Jesuit priest will never get justice in the Prime Minister’s court of misplaced vendetta. Of course, the Jesuit priest of the feeling heart of gold has strongly denied all the fabrications and stealthy plots against him and his computer. But what does the denial mean to the ridiculously cruel ‘democrat’ of deadly political power devoid of even an ounce of political moralogy?
   
As I am writing this there are on-going protests in Mumbai (Bombay) and other places in India. The rotesters against Father Swamy’s very rough, tortuous, and unjust detention running to more than two years now are gaining grounds. They know about our End SARS protesters here, and Indian youths who consider the Jesuit priest a staunch moralogist are standing by him to the very end and until justice is delivered to him  – even though many of them are non-Catholics and non-Christians. They are borrowing more than a leaf from Nigeria. They won’t be cowed; they know what to strike and how at the appointed time without engaging in acts of reckless and indecorous lootocracy. Nigerian human rights defenders must add their international voices to the clamour for Father Stan Swamy’s unconditional release from India’s Gulag–now in the names of democratic morality, democratic justice, and democratic compassion.  They must let out their voices vociferously as Indian human rights champions are already doing in support of our EndSARS heroes and heroines as per the last gist that greet me from Gandi’s land, which I shall re-visit after the confirmed disgrace and funeral of COVID-19.  As always, the rest is silence… Incredible India!!! The rest is silence…

Afejuku can be reached via 08055213059.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .