 Akeredolu’s political campaign in Akure. Photo; TWITTER/ONDOAPC  WHILE speaking on the importance of the Ondo guber poll, Governor Makinde, through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, assured the people of Ondo State that PDP would protect democracy. He also urged the people not to allow APC violence and threats to prevent them from voting. He charged security agents to do more to prevent violence  Makinde said PDP and its candidate, Jegede, had been working hard to convince the electorate by running issue-based campaigns. He pointed out how APC Governor Akeredolu brought untold hardship upon the people. He added that the ruling party has shown desperation to retain the state at all costs despite failing to provide development to the people. Makinde indicated that the PDP would use all legitimate means to ensure that the will of the people to have Jegede as their next governor is not subverted.
 
In a similar vein, Lagos governor, Sanwo-Olu, expressed confidence that the ruling party will win on October 10. The Lagos governor said Akeredolu, who is seeking re-election, has performed well and deserves to win again. “The party’s confidence is buoyed by the giant strides of Governor Akeredolu in different areas of human endeavours,” Sanwo-Olu said, adding that Akeredolu has moved Ondo from her hitherto parlous state and returned it to a trajectory of growth and development. According to him: “This is a major feature of our party. We pride ourselves as a harbinger of peace, progress, and purposeful leadership wherever we have our foothold.” He stated that he was confident of victory against the other 16 candidates from other political parties. He also criticised the administration of former Governor Olusegun Mimiko.
 
But Mimiko, the national leader ZLP, said Ajayi is the best candidate to deliver good governance to the Ondo people.  
 
In fact, all the major contenders have their jobs cut out for them. For Mimiko, a victory for ZLP will enable him to re-launch back to political reckoning in the Southwest. Recall that he fell out with Tinubu not long after he became governor in 2008. The APC national leader allegedly expected Mimiko to join the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) then, but the latter refused. Their relationship worsened in 2012 when the former Ondo governor sought re-election, but Tinubu backed Akeredolu, who eventually lost. 
 
In 2016, Mimiko again fell apart with the PDP leadership because of Jegede and PDP lost the election. He has since gone into political hibernation. With Ajayi, he hopes to re-launch himself as a political leader in Ondo. The outcome of the election on Saturday would determine his fate, going forward.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .