 Nigeria Police  Hoodlums had hijacked an End-SARS protest in Otovwodo area of Ughelli, overpowered two policemen on duty, disarmed one of them and shot him to death with his rifle. The second policeman was seriously wounded and is receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital. The hoodlums also destroyed several vehicles. Yesterday, heavily armed policemen stormed the town in search of “Yahoo Boys who allegedly sponsored the protesters,” shooting endlessly into the air as people scampered to safety. Over eleven young men were arrested and bundled into the trucks; some were forced to lay in awkward positions in the trucks as they sped to the Ughelli Police command. The Inspector General of Police, (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, who condemned the “unprovoked and violent attack” on policemen, ordered the Delta state Commissioner of Police to investigate the circumstances that led to the killing of a police officer during an #EndSARS protest in Ughelli, Delta state. The IGP also directed that the perpetrators of the act, which he described as “cruel,” be brought to book. A statement by Force Public Relation Officer, Frank Mba, stated: “The incident, which resulted in the unfortunate death of one Police officer, Corporal Etaga Stanley attached to ‘A’ Division, Ughelli, Delta State, who was attacked and brutally murdered by the protesters also left another, Sergeant Patrick Okuone with serious body injury sustained from gunshot by the protesters. “The protesters also carted away one (1) service AK47 rifle with breach no 56-2609008 and 25 rounds of live ammunition that was with the deceased at the time of the incident. “The IGP, who described the incident as cruel and unwarranted, has warned that the Force will no longer tolerate any attack on its personnel or any member of the law enforcement community by any individual or group protesting under any guise. “The IGP notes that protest by citizens remain a legitimate means for airing their concerns and views. It must however be carried out with all sense of responsibility and within the confines of the law.” While condoling the family and friends of the late Corporal Etaga Stanley who paid the supreme price in the service of our dear nation, the IGP also commended the officers of the Delta State Police Command for exercising restraint in the face of the immoral and unjustified provocation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .