Love remains the strongest source of inspiration for musicians. The subject becomes monumental when delivered in not only articulate words, but also charming and relatable. For fast rising R’n’B singer, songwriter and record producer, Michael Ikechukwu Isichei, better known in the music scene as Mike World, his latest offering, What You Want, the first song off his soon to be released Extended Play (EP) project is driven by the subject, love. Performed against a backdrop of textured synthesised keys, the UK based musician adopts a lazy, but intoxicating approach to the performance of his sweet narrative, which comes off as memorable and intense contrary to the surface effect of his drawl. Produced by Shadow, the new bop, a luxurious display of poetry, rhythm and euphony when paired with the singer’s performing art skills, yields a delectable cut, rich enough to erupt the feels not only in himself but his listeners. Commenting on his sojourn into music, Mike World stated that his interest dates back to when he was very young, adding that his passion motivated him to be actively involved in major musical activities all through his elementary and secondary school days. He has since developed his talent remarkably and honed his musical skills to a point many industry observers see him as of one of the few young acts who will redefine RnB in Africa in the nearest future. The singer made debut in the music industry officially in October 2018, with the single titled Foreign, which was well received by fans and enjoyed great airplay across all major platforms. In September 2019, he released another steaming single titled Are You Down with an accompanying video, featuring Akuchi, a Lagos-based rising star. In addition to attracting new audiences across the world, MikeWorld’s voice and brand and pushed him closer to claiming a spot in the ever-changing, fierce music landscape. To achieve this, the member of Anthems & Vibes Records embarked on major career development activities and took major steps towards fortifying himself for the challenges ahead. This include studying at the UK’s leading audio engineering school, Point Blank Music School, London, where he has bagged two diploma certificate in Music Production and Mixing & Mastering. To further stabled himself, MikeWorld also enrolled for a one-on-one grooming programme at, Tenstrings Music Institute, one of Nigeria’s leading music school, and directly under the tutelage of the institute’s director, Akapo Emmanuel, leading to an award of Advance Diploma in Music Performance. His music appeals to a wide spectrum of fans across diverse cultures, but has mostly over time, attracted urban teenagers and young adults. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .