•Moves Agitation Online
•Nominates Aisha Yesufu, Falz, Timi Dakolo, DJ Switch, Macaroni Others As •Representatives
•Obi Ezekwesili, Ibukun Awosika, Sam Adeyemi, Others As Advisory Board Protesters under the aegis, Coalition of Protest Groups, has expressed their intention to continue with the agitation to end police brutality in the country. The group said following the nationwide address by President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, October 22, they have resolved to press not just for justice but also for a new and better Nigeria where all citizens are safe and can thrive. The group, in a statement yesterday, said for the wellbeing of protesters and ordinary citizens, they would deprioritise physical agitations for now, but continue the struggle for the sake of those who died during the protests. The group resolved to, in the next few days, intensify online publicity and protest of the issues and demands made, while continue with offline community engagement. “We are putting a timeline together to track actions taken to meet our demands. This way, we know what has been done, what is being done, and what can be ticked off our list. This way, we know if and when the government defaults, and we can decide if a return to the streets is necessary,” the statement said. The group said they are building up strategies pillared on and geared towards education, voter registration, political consciousness and representation for young people in government to sustain the momentum. The group said as the movement move towards consolidation, they have pick names of individuals to represent the different coalitions; from celebrities to activists, legal minds to strategists, journalists to entrepreneurs, and others. Aisha Yesufu, Folarin Falana aka Falz, Tacha Ikide are among nominees to represent protesters at the federal level while Debo Macaroni, DJ Switch, Kiki Mordi are among those selected for Lagos State. Ibikun Awosika, Obi Ezekwesili, Pastor Sam Adeyemi, and others are selected as members of advisory board. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .