Dedalus Global (https://DedalusGlobal.com) and Ibex Frontier (www.IbexFrontier.com) are pleased to announce Jack Dorsey as the closing keynote for this year’s Africa Fintech Summit (www.AfricaFintechSummit.com). The Summit is being held virtually on November 9, 10, and 12.  As the Co-Founder, Chairman and CEO of Square, Inc., Dorsey is considered to be one of the biggest influencers in tech ecosystems worldwide and is often revered as a futurist. Founded in 2009, Square has introduced a suite of innovative tools and services that supports financial inclusion and the growth of businesses. In recent weeks, Square announced it would become one of the first publicly traded U.S. companies to hold Bitcoin on its balance sheet. Dorsey’s keynote marks a year since the visionary visited Africa to meet with several of the continent’s tech leaders and incubation houses. His listening tour in Africa confirmed the consensus that Africa will define the future (especially the bitcoin one!). He has since held an active and insightful voice on the future of African fintech, in particular, the future of cryptocurrency.  With an unbanked population of 66%, and a credit card penetration rate that averages 1.5%, the applications for crypto in sub-Saharan Africa only help solidify Dorsey’s interest in the continent. Dorsey’s closing keynote on November 12 will revolve around the concepts of decentralized finance and opportunities it creates for financial inclusion. Throughout the three day event, registrants will have the opportunity to: Engage and learn from 60 of sector’s most active thought leaders over the course of 12 panel sessions, 3 fireside chats, and related discussion forums Participate in discussions that dissect some of the sector’s regulatory hurdles Connect with early-stage startups and the latest innovations through a startup expo Meet with the industry’s stakeholders – investors, startups, regulators, banking execs, and more! – in curated networking sessions or 1×1 Learn best practices for approaching different types of investors, banking partners, and regulators The Summit will conclude on November 12 with the regional final of Pegasus Tech Ventures’ Startup World Cup global pitch competition, the winner of which will be invited to compete for US$1M at the global semi-finals in Silicon Valley in May 2021.  Startups apply to exhibit and pitch by visiting and submitting the form at www.AfricaFintechSummit.com/alphaexpo/apply/ Register and view the agenda and speakers for the event at www.AfricaFintechSummit.com Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Africa Fintech Summit. Media & Sponsor Contact:
Andrew W. Barden
Analyst, Dedalus Global
Communications Lead
Africa Fintech Summit andrew@dedalusglobal.com About Dedalus Global and Africa Fintech Summit:
Dedalus Global (https://DedalusGlobal.com) is a go-to-market strategic advisory focused on emerging tech in emerging markets and is the founding organizer of Africa Fintech Summit (AFTS). As the first fintech event to be held annually in the USA and Africa, AFTS boasts the largest network of African fintech stakeholders from across the globe. In addition to its advisory business, since 2018, Dedalus has organized four fintech summits and a series of policy roundtables, virtual workshops, and startup bootcamps under the AFTS brand. AFTS events have hosted more than 1500 attendees, representing each of the top stakeholder segments, from 51 countries and 6 continents.
 
About Ibex Frontier:
Ibex (www.IbexFrontier.com) is an investment advisory & route-to-Ethiopia-market advisory firm headquartered in Washington D.C. and with a presence in London and Addis Ababa. Through insights and access that spans three continents and 20+ years of experience by its Founding team, Ibex provides premier investment, market entry, and business development advisory services for Eastern Africa with a focus on Ethiopia. Since June 2019, Ibex has been a co-organizer of AFTS events. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .