Women league opens more doors for sponsors
The Nigeria Women Football League (NWF) will kick off on December 9 with Nasarawa Amazons hosting FC Robo Queens in one of the fixtures for week one. At the draws held in Abuja by the Aisha Falode-led NWFL yesterday, the league said the kick off date is subject to the ratification of the Nigeria Football Federation. Representatives from all the 16 participating clubs were in attendance in attendance at the draws, where the NWFL Chief Operating Officer, Mrs. Faith Ben-Anuge, disclosed that the 2020 Premiership season will be played on a straight league format for the first time in three years, adding that it will be played for 30 weeks. She also revealed that the season would go on a two-week break after Week 15. In other Week One matches, Adamawa Queens will host Rivers Angels, Confluence Queens are up against Ibom Angels, Dreams Stars will meet Delta Queens, Bayelsa Queens have a date with Pelican Stars, while Edo Queens will entertain Royal Queens. In Umuahia, Abia Angels will be at home to Osun Babes, while Sunshine Queens will host Heartland Queens in Akure. Meanwhile, the NWFL has moved into its new secretariat at Wuse Zone 7, Abuja. On Tuesday, the NWFL had its first official outing at the complex when it hosted Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Amaju Pinnick. Speaking at the reception, NWFL Chairperson, Aisha Falode, said, “For about three years now, the NFF president has promised to open more sponsorships doors and opportunities for the women’s football league in Nigeria. The visit was a clear indication that, Pinnick is close to pulling the NWFL through in the drive to get worthy sponsorship packages for the league. “Again, the NFF boss reaffirmed his commitment to see the three tiers of the women’s league grow to where they are supposed to be, not only in Nigeria, but also at the continental level especially as Nigerian clubs will be participating in the CAF Women Champion’s League in 2021 with a determination to make history as the first winners. “We are most delighted to say that the NFF president’s visit came as a huge blessing to us in our new Secretariat at the Glass House in Abuja as the president in his magnanimity has promised to ensure the provision of ultra modern facilities and office equipment that would make our Abuja Secretariat a befitting one. And function according to international best practices.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .