  The party said this in a statement issued by Mr Yekini Nabena, its Deputy National Publicity Secretary. It said it viewed the responsive decision as a major and concrete step toward President Muhammadu Buhari’s affirmed resolve to achieve better policing and necessary reforms. “From the recent #BlackLivesMatter social movement to other global clamours for review of police operations, particularly in regard to citizens they are empowered to protect the need for police reforms in Nigeria is urgent and continuous. Police officers look on as a protester chants a slogan during the ongoing demonstrations to call for the scrapping of the controversial police unit at Ikeja, on October 9, 2020. - Nigeria's top police chief banned a controversial anti-robbery unit and other special agents from mounting roadblocks and carrying out stop-and-search operations over accusations of abuses. Inspector-General of Police Muhammed Adamu said the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) and other tactical squads must stop such operations "with immediate effect". Adamu said the decision followed findings that "a few personnel" in undercover tactical squads have abused their position "to perpetrate all forms of illegality". (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  Nabena expressed optimism that the police reform would also ensure humane, professional, and accountable police operations in the country. He called on Nigerians to take advantage of the Citizens’ and Strategic Stakeholders’ Forum formed to regularly interface with police leadership at all levels and advise on its activities as they affected the general public. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there had been pockets of protests by some individuals in some parts of the federation calling for the scrapping of SARS over harassment and intimidation by some of its officers. The Inspector-General of Police, while announcing the disbandment of SARS across the 36 states of the federation, on Oct. 11, said its operatives would be redeployed to other police formations and commands. The announcement came after days of online and offline protests against the brutality and extra-judicial killings by SARS operatives nationwide. “The Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria Police Force otherwise known as SARS is hereby dissolved in all the 36 State Police Commands and the Federal Capital Territory,” the IGP had said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .