It is no gain saying that late 2019 released hit, Jerusalema, by South African singer cum songwriter, Nomcebo Zikode and record producer, Kgaogelo Moagi, who is known professionally as Master KG, is undoubtedly a top choice African song of the year that has dominated many honest conversation. The well received upbeat gospel-influenced house track produced one late night at Master KG’s studio near South Africa’s commercial city, Johannesburg, has since become the world’s most Shazammed song and a viral hit loved by notable celebrities, including footballer cum Portuguese/Juventus FC player, Christiano Ronaldo; American singer, songwriter, actress and dancer, Janet Jackson and a lot of nuns. Initially released on November 29, 2019 after it garnered positive reviews online, the music video was released on December 21 of the same year. The song was later included on Master KG’s second album of the same title, released in January this year. The song was eventually released on streaming services on July 10, this year, after it went viral in June, garnering international reaction due to the #JerusalemaChallenge, which spawned dance videos from many countries, including Italy, Spain, France, Jamaica and Canada. When Nomcebo Zikode and Master KG teamed up with Nigerian Afro-pop and Afrobeat singer, Damini Ogulu, better known as Burna Boy on the song remix in June this year, the Africa Giant crooner not only revved up the waning energy surrounding the song, but also increased its popularity and propelled it onto the US Billboard charts. Still dominating the airwaves through massive airplay, the celebrated trio gives the alluring body of work another chance at widespread fame by sharing its video. In the video, co-directed by South Africa’s Kyle White and Nigeria’s Clarence Peters, the music powerhouses stick to their individual strengths, performing less but exerting much energy in their mimes which in turn inspires the feelings of hope and salvation the lyrics of the song seek to set off. Burna Boy in the video is seen standing at the top of a high-rise building in Lagos, as he commands the power combination of the song’s meaning, it’s fame, which his commandeering presence attracts, while Nomcebo and Master KG keep the peace back in South Africa. Explaining the inspiration behind the song, Nomcebo said she was on the verge of giving up on her dreams of becoming a solo artiste after many years of being a backup singer. “The song came when I was about to lose hope. I wanted my voice to be heard; I was tired of being a backup singer. The lyrics are a plea for God to answer this prayer. The opening lines are in isiZulu, the most widely spoken language in South Africa. Translated, they mean: ‘Jerusalem is my home/ Guide me / Take me with you / Do not leave me here,” Zikode said in a raspy voice. According to her, “Master KG called late one evening and asked that I come to his studio in Midrand immediately to listen to beats he had just created. I was like now? But he was insistent. After listening to the beats I asked if I could take them home to work on lyrics but Master KG refused. So I chased him out of the studio so I could think alone.” After listening to the track two or three times, the first words came to her, and she yelled out to Master KG, saying: “Come back, come back, come back! Something came out. Like I said, all of this happened when I was about to lose hope. “We recorded the song, finishing just after midnight. On the way to gym the next morning, I listened to it in her car; I had goose bumps all over my body. Then I heard a voice saying, this is going to be a big song. I prayed in her car that Master KG would love the track, too. A few days later he called and said: My sister, you actually need to come back. This song is sounding too nice.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .