A-Bate Nigerian-American rapper and fitness coach, Chigozie Alvin Anugwom popularly known as A-Bate has joined the long list of celebrities who have lent their voices to the #EndSARS protest against police killings, extortion by the rogue police force in Nigeria. Nigerians across the globe have taken to the streets and online since last week to protest against brutality and harassment from rogue police force. According to the Los Angeles-based record producer, it’s sad as a Nigerian to have to deal with a lot of menaces outside the country while police who are supposed to secure your lives are the ones cutting it short. A-Bate who hails from Owerri also commended every Nigerians using their voices and platforms to demand for a better life, urging them to also create a room for dialogue. He said, “These officers have inflected pains, torture and other ill-treatment to execute, punish their victims, whose responsibility it is to protect them. Everyone has a horrible story. “Having body piercings, wearing tightly-fitted clothes, carrying a laptop, or even using a backpack is a crime in 2020? “Good moves by the government by scrapping the unit, but the president must go beyond disbanding and scrapping the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, but the entire force needs overhauling. “To every young men and women playing positive roles in drawing the attention of government and the authorities to the crisis in the Nigeria Police Force, God bless you. “ I will urged the government to dialogue with Nigerian youths and when that negotiation opportunity comes, I want to call on each and everyone of us to embrace it and find lasting solutions to make Nigeria proud,” he concluded. Nigerian stars Falz, Davido, Runtown, Wizkid, Don Jazzy, Asisat Oshoala, Ahmed Musa, Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi, Leon Balogun were quick to identify with the protests. Other international football stars like Marcus Rashford and Mesut Ozil have also expressed their solidarity. American musicians, Kanye West, P Diddy and other international figures have also joined the protests. There have been protests in Lagos, Abuja, Abeokuta, Anambra, Abia, Ibadan, Kwara, Ebonyi, Enugu, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, and other states across Nigeria. Despite the disbandment of SARS on Sunday and the announcement of the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) as its replacement, the protests have continued. 