The World Igbo Congress (WIC) has expressed shock and dismay at the flagrant disregard of the rule of law by the Federal Government.
 
They claimed that the lopsided governing pattern of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has caused the nation its inherent ingenuity and threatening its unity.
 
In a statement issued yesterday, and in Lagos, signed by the Public Relations Officer, Basil Onwukwe, the body, which condemned the killing of unarmed Igbo youths in disguise of an illegal proscription, called on Nigerian security officers to stop the horrendous act. 
 
“There is no governing rule of any nation that allows border closure in the South and grants open border in the northern area where it has increased the influx of ISIS, Boko Haram, Al Qaeda and other terrorists into Nigeria through the Niger border.  The body also expressed concern that there have not been any active prosecution processes for Fulani herdsmen and the terrorists who are killing their people, but they continue to enjoy visa-free entry into the country.
 
“The few captured killers are pardoned and indoctrinated into the Nigerian military while our young unarmed Igbo youths are been incarcerated for an indefinite period, killed on a slight provocation for practicing marshal act or moving in groups, while the jihadist are absorbed into the security apparatus of the nation. You cannot continue to divide and despise us but prevent our youth from agitation. 
 
“The Buhari administration has continued to thrive in exploitation and divisive tendencies in furtherance of tribal governance for an intrinsic and insatiable penchant to achieve their ordinate ambitions against the interest of the nation.”
 
Onwukwe said the WIC is committed to justice and will expose all the atrocities perpetrated by the government in line with international criminal laws. 
 
According to him, the rejection of the nation’s indifference policy must be now, urging the eastern governors to demand the removal of the reabsorbed insurgents security agents posted to their regions. “An intelligence report has reviewed that these people are responsible for the Christian killings and raping of indigenous Nigerians.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .