Members and friends of Ibadan Golf Club on Tuesday raised their glasses in honour of one of the prominent members of the club, Otunba Abimbola Davis, who marked his 63rd birthday on that day. About 60 golfers participated in a weekly women’s kitty dedicated and sponsored by the celebrant. It was followed by a dinner where golfers and friends spoke highly of the former Association for Better Nigeria (ABN) pointsman.  “If you don’t get close to Otunba Abimbola Davis, you might want to crucify him from afar, but getting close to him, you will discover a perfect gentleman with great benevolence spirit. He has done a lot to contribute to the development of IGC since he became a member,” Ibironke, popularly known as Dudu Heritage noted. Another golfer and playing mate of Davis, Comrade Bayo Titilola-Sodo, who is also the pioneer permanent secretary, Oyo State Local Government Staff Pensions Board, described the celebrant as an honest and upright person, the attribute he got to know while playing on the golf course with Davis. “If Otunba tells you he played a certain number on the golf and you check, it will be correct… it is on a golf course that you can easily test someone’s integrity and Otunba Davis had always passed that. He’s an honest man but won’t mind going any mile to defend whatever he believes in, I pray he celebrates many years more”, Sodo, the former Oyo State Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) noted. The lady Captain of IGC, Mary Okunola, thanked Otunba Davis for always supporting activities of the Lady Section, saying the celebrant is women-friendly. “We cannot thank Otunba enough for all he has done for the lady section of this club, from my predecessors to date. He singlehandedly sponsored the establishment of Lady Captain’s office with furniture and gadgets to mention a few. May God continues to bless and strengthen him more,” said the lady captain. The celebrant in his response thanked all that graced the event while describing golf as a game that bonds players, adding that it has helped him both health-wise and socially. “I am not a social person as most people believed, but IGC changed that. The people who are my family now are golfers, the jokes at the pavilion, etc. I’m convinced I can’t find that elsewhere,” Davis reiterated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .