Competition-starved Nigerian players are in for a bumper harvest in December when the Professional Golfers Association of Nigeria (PGAN) lays out its trophies and other prizes for the best performers. The outbreak of the coronavirus stopped the PGA of Nigeria from hosting its major tournaments, which include the Plateau and Jigawa States Governors’ Cup. But the association has dusted its roster with the recent government decision to lift the ban on sporting activities. To that effect, the PGAN has lined up three major tournaments before the Christmas break, starting with the Chief of Army Staff (Burutai) tournament in Abuja. It will be followed by the Plateau State Governor’s Cup billed for the Lamingo Golf Club in Jos and the Jigawa State Governor’s Cup at the Royal Golf Club, Dutse. The Plateau State Governor’s Cup has been regular since its inception, while the maiden edition of the Jigawa Governor’s Cup was held in 2018 with Christopher Francis as the winner. Speaking on the tournaments, outgoing PGA Nigeria Director, Samson Lawal, said the Plateau event would hold in the second week of December before the Jigawa Governor’s Cup. “PGA Nigeria is preparing seriously for some tournaments before the end of the year. The Chief of Army Staff (Burutai) Tournament will be the first, as it is scheduled to hold from December 4 to 6 to be followed by the Plateau Governor’s Cup in Jos from December 8 to13. “The specific date for the Jigawa Governor’s Cup will be made known soon; we are still discussing to iron out certain issues.” Lawal also hinted that the association would hold its Annual General Meeting (AGM) within the events. Speaking on the Jigawa Governor’s Cup, Captain of the Dutse Club, Alhaji Babangida Umar, affirmed the club’s readiness to host the event. He added, “December is certain for us to host Jigawa Governor’s Cup this year. It will tee off immediately after Plateau Governor’s Cup.” Umar believes that golf will help develop the state’s tourism industry and also give the youths the opportunity to take to the sport.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .