Law Students Association of Nigeria (LAWSAN) has asked the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to honourably resign his position “for incompetence.” Alternatively, they called on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack him for the harmless civilians killed under his watch. The National President of LAWSAN, Blessing Abumere, at press conference in Abuja, gave the National Assembly and Buhari 24 hours to effect the sack. He described the disbandment of SARS by the IGP as paying lip service to a matter of grave consequence. “We are already protesting against a bad situation and these peaceful protesters, who are not armed with even the smallest of items like stones and woods, are being brutalised and killed by the same police we are complaining about,” he added. MEANWHILE, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Ibadan branch, has offered free legal services to #EndSARS protesters. This was disclosed yesterday through a statement signed by the Vice Chairman, Mrs. Adelayo Oriekun, who doubles as chairperson of the association’s Human Rights Committee. She stated: “Following the recent #EndSARS protests by Nigerians and the pronouncement by the IGP dissolving SARS, with its attendant abuse of human rights, NBA, Ibadan branch, is committed to promoting the rule of law, protection of protesters’ fundamental human rights and holding the government accountable for breach of constitutional rights of members of the public. “As a result, the branch has authorised its Human Rights Committee to: provide free legal representation to victims of police brutality and harassment; receive report of cases of police harassment to the NBA Ibadan branch by calling the helpline on +2349040000079; convene a public enlightenment session in collaboration with relevant stakeholders for the protection and enforcement of fundamental human rights of members of the public; call for legal practitioners to volunteer their services to support the committee in defending the rights of members of the public.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .