At HUAWEI CONNECT 2020, International Data Corporation (IDC), the premier global provider of market intelligence, advisory services, and events for the information technology, telecommunications and consumer technology markets, along with Huawei (www.Huawei.com), have released a major White Paper titled “Banking Industry Rises up to the New Normal”. In this paper, IDC and Huawei survey the impact that Covid-19 has had on the banking industry and outlines steps that should be taken by banks to ensure their future success. As part of this report, IDC and Huawei has developed a Banking Resilience Index, which quantifies the current status of banking by region in terms of six key measures. This Index shows major regional differences and can be used by banks to assess their own Resilience and provides guidance for where to focus for future success.  At HUAWEI CONNECT 2020, Huawei and its partners are showing the wide range of FSI solutions, including Financial Cloud, smart branches, digital CORE and intelligent data platforms. These solutions allow banks to reduce costs, increase agility to the rapidly changing FSI environment, attract and retain customers and position themselves against emerging competitors. The recent disruptions to everyday life have moved the focus of financial services to Mobile and Huawei has been a leader in supporting the move to mobile interactions globally, based on the early experiences in China. The insights we are sharing are allowing financial customers globally to respond and support customers in these trying times.  These experiences led Huawei to work with IDC on this report. Some of the major findings in the report concern the financial impact of the pandemic on bank’s balance sheets, the exponential increase in digital payments from mobile devices and the dramatic shift in the role of branches in banking services. In looking to the future, IDC finds that efforts should concentrate on: Taken together, the Banking Resilience Index and the focus areas, provide guidance for banks as they deal with the continuing challenges of “The New Normal”.  Huawei will continue to expand its engagement with the world’s leading financial organizations and the insights provided by this report will provide a solid foundation for that work.  To download the white paper, please click the link: https://bit.ly/3daSNsb Distributed by APO Group on behalf of Huawei. About Huawei:
Founded in 1987, Huawei (www.Huawei.com) is a leading global provider of information and communications technology (ICT) infrastructure and smart devices. We have more than 194,000 employees, and we operate in more than 170 countries and regions, serving more than three billion people around the world. Our vision and mission is to bring digital to every person, home and organization for a fully connected, intelligent world. To this end, we will drive ubiquitous connectivity and promote equal access to networks; bring cloud and artificial intelligence to all four corners of the earth to provide superior computing power where you need it, when you need it; build digital platforms to help all industries and organizations become more agile, efficient, and dynamic; redefine user experience with AI, making it more personalized for people in all aspects of their life, whether they’re at home, in the office, or on the go. For more information, please visit Huawei online at www.Huawei.com or follow us on:
http://www.linkedin.com/company/Huawei
http://www.twitter.com/Huawei
http://www.facebook.com/Huawei
http://www.google.com/+Huawei
http://www.youtube.com/Huawei To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .