A small group of Ivory Coast’s political opposition suporters protest against a third term of President Alassane Ouattara’s in street of Anono village in Abidjan on October 15, 2020, ahead of the October 31, 2020 presidential elections. (Photo by Issouf SANOGO / AFP) Campaigning started in Ivory Coast Thursday for a tense presidential election, with incumbent Alassane Ouattara seeking a controversial third term and the opposition pushing for civil disobedience, sparking fears of violence. Many observers fear a crisis may be sparked by the October 31 election comparable to the one in 2010-2011 when 3,000 people died and the West African nation was plunged into chaos. “All the Ivorian opposition says No, No, No,” to a third Ouattara mandate, was the message displayed at an opposition rally in Abidjan at the weekend that attracted tens of thousands of people. There were no campaign posters for the opposition on display in the economic capital Abidjan on Thursday, however, while President Ouattara appeared on billboards with slogans deeming him “the best” for Ivory Coast, the country’s youth and civil servants. There are four candidates in the running — 78-year-old Ouattara; 86-year-old former president Henri Konan Bedie; former prime minister Pascal Affi N’Guessan and former parliamentarian Kouadio Konan Bertin. The constitutional council rejected a further 40 would-be candidates including ex president Laurent Gbagbo, 75, and former rebel leader Guillaume Soro, 47, both of whom played key roles in the crisis that engulfed the country after disputed elections in 2010. Gbagbo was freed conditionally by the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague after being cleared in January 2019 of crimes against humanity during that crisis. He is currently in Brussels pending the outcome of an appeal against the ICC ruling. The opposition has cried foul over Ouattara’s attempt to secure a third term in office despite the two-term constitutional limit. After his re-election in 2015, Ouattara announced in March that he would not seek a third term. But he changed his mind after his preferred successor, prime minister Amadou Gon Coulibaly, died of a sudden heart attack in July. Ouattara and his supporters have argued that a 2016 revision of the constitution reset the limit on the number of terms. Violent demonstrations 
Demonstrations against Ouattara’s decision to run again have turned violent and left around 15 people dead, reviving memories of the murderous crisis a decade ago. Several high-profile figures, including Konan Bedie and former prime minister Affi N’Guessan, have called for “civil disobedience” in recent weeks. A wing of Gbagbo’s Ivorian Popular Front party (FPI) led by Affi N’Guessan who is one of the contestants, on Wednesday asked supporters not to accept voters’ cards. “For us, the National Election Commission is no longer a competent body to oversee the election,” said Maurice Kakou Guikahue, the number two of the historically dominant Democratic Party of Ivory Coast. During the campaign, Ouattara is expected to point to his record on the economy and attempts to restore the world’s biggest exporter of cocoa to its former position as a regional powerhouse. Assoa Adou, the secretary general of the FPI faction Gbagbo or Nothing (GOR), called it a “fool’s election”. Turnout among the 7.5 million people entitled to vote in a country with a total population of 25 million will be a key point, with observers fearing a high abstention rate. Last week, a delegation of African and UN envoys expressed “deep concern” ahead of the vote. Last month, the International Crisis Group called for a postponement and suggested political exiles be allowed to return to Ivory Coast. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .