A civil servant in Osun State, Mr Gbenga Ayenioye, and his friend, a theatre practitioner, Mr. Tunde AmokeOja, have been arrested and detained by the police for allegedly raping a teenage girl (name withheld).
 
It was gathered that Ayenioye, who was a Financial Accounting teacher at Osogbo Grammar School,  invited the girl, said to be one of his students, to a chalet at Latona in Osogbo on Sunday, February 16, 2020.  Meanwhile in Abia State, it is now prescribed by law that a male can also be raped and not only a female as against what it was in its legal definition. This follows the provision in the law recently enacted by the Abia House of Assembly, which the Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, has signed.
 
The law, tagged ‘Abia State Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Act,’ prescribed that males can be raped and that unlawful anal or oral sex can be classified as rape and not a sexual assault as legal definitions inferred.
[a]d 
The law covers psychological, socio-economic and physical violence and makes provisions for violence perpetrated by spouses, deprivations by spouses, battery, harmful widowhood practices, female genital mutilation, indecent exposure, incest, abandonment of children, as well as harmful substance attacks like cases where someone pours acid on a fellow human being.
 
Reacting to the VAPP Act, Mr Chika Ojiegbe, Chief Press Secretary to the governor’s wife, Nkechi Ikpeazu, said the governor’s assent to the bill came after months of painstaking work by the assembly and advocacy by Mrs Ikpeazu.
 
Former chairman of the state chapter of the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Mrs Chidinma Alozie, said the law would provide a more robust legal framework for implementing justice for gender-based issues and rape.
 
The National Assembly enacted the VAPP Act in 2015 while Lagos, Oyo, Anambra, Enugu, Bauchi, Kaduna, Benue, Cross River, Ebonyi, Edo, Ekiti, Ogun, Osun and Plateau had passed the law in their states.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .