Tackling rising cases of crime within communities will require a holistic and measured approach, which must include restorative justice, faith-based therapies, and communities’ support. While restorative justice seeks to compensate or placate the victim of crime, faith-based therapy involves religious groups exposing virtues of decency to those with criminal intents with a view to discouraging them from crime.
   
The ease at which citizens went on a rampage last week, wantonly looting, maiming, killing, stealing, and setting ablaze public and private facilities exemplify the level of lawlessness, heartlessness, and criminality within society. All the persons involved in the mayhem seem to have no value for law and order. They also have scant regard for any institution (public or private) and strongly believe that they are victims of the State’s negligence, and so, must take revenge on the society. They seem to have lost sense of what is right, just, and humane.  In the area of community support, he also canvassed a compulsory requirement that after a prisoner has been offered some support post-incarceration, there must be some kind of follow-up and monitoring.
   In addition, he suggested that within three months after release, Prison officials, organisations and other charity bodies should be mandated to monitor the progress of an ex-convict to see if there is an improvement, whether he has fallen back into crime or needs further help.
   Associate professor of law at the University of Lagos, Akeem Bello, in his remark stated that restorative justice has a high rate of success in reducing repeated offences. According to him, there is a cost effectiveness benefit to the community when restorative justice is practiced, rather than the usual traditional criminal justice trial, which involves a lot of resources by the state to establish and maintain the court, among other expenses. 
   “Restorative justice also has some benefits and promises to the offender, which is an opportunity to make it right, profiting offenders as well as their victims. The process of restorative justice is swift in comparison to the criminal justice system, such that offenders can more quickly make meaningful changes in their lives,” he said.
   He however, added that there is a problem of lack of trained and skilled restorative justice facilitators. But this, he said, can be solved by training the judges, defence counsel, prosecutors, and the police on the process of restorative justice, and to train and provide paid restorative justice facilitators at the state expense.
   Bello therefore called for the enactment of clearly articulated laws at the state and federal levels that will clearly define the role of stakeholders, prosecutors, police, the court, and defence counsel in exploring restorative justice. 
   Another lawyer, Dr. Uju Agomo, who is the Executive Director, Prisoners’ Rehabilitation and Welfare Action (PRAWA) said there is always a reason for those who indulge in crime. Those reasons, she said, are primarily the things that “we need to look at when we are trying to intervene to promote reformation, rehabilitation and reintegration.”
   Her words: “So when we look at these issues, we talk about the history of antisocial behaviour of that particular individual. You are also looking at what kind of personality pattern that fellow has and the psychological aspect because those with antisocial personality patterns have issues.” She suggested that social dimensions, among others, must be examined. According to her, the key thing is to look at the risk factors.
   For all that it is worth, it will not be a bad idea introducing restorative justice and faith-based therapy in the corpus juris. Their promise of drastically reducing rising incidences of crime within communities is too fascinating to ignore. QUOTE 
Legislations that discriminate against those who have had criminal convictions must be repealed. Even the laws frown at double jeopardy! By discriminating against ex-offenders and ostracizing them, society is simply biting its nose to spite its face and fueling the vicious crime shuttle. Let society help them to re-enter meaningful socio-economic and cultural life again To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .