Sars • APC chieftain denies Igini’s alleged libelous publication
• ADP candidate petitions election tribunal as party disowns him Angered by police officers’ continuous harassment and intimation of members of the public, youth in Edo State, yesterday, embarked on a peaceful protest against Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) recently restricted by Inspector General of Police (IGP), Adamu Mohammed. The youth who came out in their droves stormed the streets of Benin City, particularly from the Benin-Sapele Road and Upper Sokponba Road to King Square and other adjoining streets to express their displeasure over the activities of SARS officers and their continuous presence in the state despite their ban. The protesters took over the streets of Benin City in a protest march that caused vehicular traffic on the roads for the time the protest lasted. According to them, the officers should comply with the IGP’s prohibition of SARS and personnel of other units of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) from routine checks on the highways and within cities. CHAIRMAN of Edo All Progressives Congress (APC) Media Campaign Council, John Mayaki, yesterday, denied authorising the publication of any defamatory or libelous material against the Akwa Ibom State Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Mike Igini. Igini had on Monday instituted a N10 billion libel suit against factional chairman of APC in the state, David Imuse and Mayaki. In a letter signed by his solicitor, A I. Osarenkhoe and addressed to Igini’s counsel, Clement Onwuenwunor in Benin City, Mayaki denied responsibility and liability of the libelous publications. “Our client categorically denies causing publication of any defamatory or libelous material relating to your client by anyone on any newspaper or article. Consequently, we suggest that you advise your client against embarking on any fruitless legal journey,” the letter said. MEANWHILE, the state Action Democratic Party (ADP) has reacted to a petition filed by its candidate, Iboi Lucky Emmanuel, against the outcome of the just conducted governorship election in which Governor Godwin Obaseki emerged victorious. In a statement issued by its Chairman, Gabriel Oloruntobi, the party expressed shock that Emmanuel filed a petition at the Election tribunal to challenge the outcome of the September 19, 2020 governorship election, stressing that the ADP was not interested in contesting an election that was adjudged free, fair and credible. Emmanuel had filed the petition at the Election Petition Tribunal on October 5, 2020 to challenge the outcome of the September 19 gubernatorial poll. The party is one of the 14 INEC registered political parties, which participated in the election. Joined in the petition by a team of seven lawyers as respondents, are the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Obaseki, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate, Osagie Ize-Iyamu. ADP is asking the tribunal to declare that by virtue of his non-qualification, the votes credited to Obaseki should be cancelled.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .