NTT Pro Cycling’s (http://www.NTTProCycling.com) Ben O’Connor stormed to a sensational debut Grand Tour stage win claiming victory on stage 17 of the Giro d’Italia.  In the process, O’Connor scored NTT Pro Cycling’s first stage win at a grand tour since 2018, in emotional scenes at Madonna di Campiglio. The 24-year-old Australian, along with teammates Louis Meintjes and Amanuel Ghebreigzabhier, crucially formed part of the day’s 18-man breakaway from which he eventually made the winning move. With 8km to go O’Connor took control of the race and soloed to an incredible victory, raising his arms aloft, sparking wild and emotional celebrations at the finish line. O’Connor’s victory comes just a day after he placed second in stage 16, confirming a rich vein of form at a time that’s crucially important to the team as it looks to secure its future. To finish off a brilliant day for the team, Domenico Pozzovivo safely navigated himself to the finish ensuring that on a potentially difficult day he secured his 8th position on the general classification. Ben O’Connor Yesterday I was pretty disappointed but I think that I’ve said before that I was very happy with how I raced. Today I think I was the strongest in the race, at the front, and I managed to pull it off. My tears at the end were just a bit of pride, yesterday it was so close and I was just missing a bit in the end, but I think it’s easy to be inspired when the people around you need inspiration. I think our team really needed this win, I really needed this win as did my family and friends, who put a lot of faith in me. I think I cried as it was a sense of overwhelming relief because the amount of effort and work that not just I put in but everyone around you does. Just from yesterday there was so much support that it would have been a shame not to try again. I’m quite emotional as a person and it just means a lot because of everything this year, I guess it’s been an incredibly tough year for a lot of people and when you have such joy what else can you do but cry. You know the team situation, everyone does, and it’s not good but it’s racing like we are now which gives hope to the team and to everyone as it’s proof that we can do it: as our bus driver says it’s a little bit of “grinta”. Douglas Ryder What an amazing stage for Ben, and a brilliant stage for our team. This is something that we’ve worked so hard for as a team. For this race, as we went into the Tour de France with expectations to win stages and ride fairly high in the general classification, the team showed that even through its struggling times to find a new title partner, there is complete unity and that everybody’s committed to each other. Today having three riders in the breakaway all supporting each other, and then with Ben clearly the strongest after finishing second yesterday and feeling so disappointed in himself and then getting up again today and doing what he did shows his character. It showed how committed every single one of these individuals is to try and make a result and support the team that’s supported them over the years, it’s just a beautiful story. To win here, on a climb that some big names in the sport have done, I’m just so happy for Ben and of course for the team. Distributed by APO Group on behalf of NTT Pro Cycling. Media Contact: 
Jean Smyth (Head of Communications)
Email: jean@ryder.co.za
Mobile: +27 63 4701 1710 or +31 625 739 033 About NTT Pro Cycling:
Founded in 2007, NTT Pro Cycling (formerly Team Dimension Data for Qhubeka) (http://www.NTTProCycling.com) became the first-ever African cycling team to gain a WorldTour license, in 2016. With the support of our headline sponsor and technology innovation partner, NTT, we are the most purpose-driven, performance-led, and technology-enabled team in pro cycling today. Our ambition is to continue to race at the highest levels in world cycling, to develop riders to realise their full potential and to inspire and motivate people across the African continent to ride bicycles. We have bases in South Africa, Denmark, the Netherlands and Italy. We also ride to raise awareness for Qhubeka, a global charity operating in South Africa, through our #BicyclesChangeLives campaign. The hands on the back of the team race jersey are a reminder that every Qhubeka bicycle is a helping hand up to a beneficiary, which are provided through Qhubeka's learn-to-earn and work-to-earn programmes. About Qhubeka:
Qhubeka (https://Qhubeka.org/) is a charity that moves people forward with bicycles. People earn bicycles through our programmes, improving their access to schools, clinics and jobs. A bicycle is a tool that helps people to travel faster and further, and to carry more. In the face of extreme and persistent poverty, bicycles can change lives by helping to address socioeconomic challenges at the most basic level – helping people to get where they need to go. About NTT Ltd.:
NTT Ltd. (https://hello.global.NTT/) is a global technology services company bringing together the expertise of leaders in the field, including NTT Communications, Dimension Data and NTT Security. We partner with organizations around the world to shape and achieve outcomes through intelligent technology solutions. For us, intelligent means data driven, connected, digital and secure. As a global ICT provider, we employ more than 40,000 people in a diverse and dynamic workplace and deliver services in over 200 countries and regions. Together we enable the connected future. Visit us at our new website https://hello.global.NTT/ All images attached to the press release can be used with the respective image credit in combination to this release. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .