Lagos State House of Assembly has called on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to create Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSME) hubs in the three senatorial districts across the state. The Assembly said this would make life more meaningful, and also assist in helping youths to channel their energies towards productive use instead of crime and other atrocities. In a Motion entitled: “Call on the State Government to Establish Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Commercial Hubs In All The Senatorial Districts of Lagos State,” moved by Ganiyu Okanlawon (Kosofe 1 Constituency), during plenary, the legislator said the decision if well-implemented would make life more meaningful and abundant as the MSMEs grow.
 
He noted that what helped a country like China was when they clustered SMEs, saying, “the Chinese conceived the idea of one village one SME, one town one industry.”
 
“We can establish commercial hubs in the state. In places such as Epe, Ibeju Lekki, and others, they will go into fishing. In a place like Badagry, they grow coconut, and we can support them to grow. We can do over 100 products from coconut.”
 
While commending Governor Sanwo-Olu, the House called on him to call on the Commissioner for Commerce and Industry to create SME hubs in the different senatorial districts in the state, and to provide the necessary structure for their survival.
 
“This House notes the efforts of the Federal Government in the recognition of MSMEs as the engine room for driving the Nigerian economy, and the establishment of Eko Fashion hub at Ikeja, making it a one-stop centre for fashion designers to share facilities and resources.”
 
The Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, said the MSMEs would bring about socio-economic development, adding that it is not just about establishing, but sustaining what has already been established. “We have to bring agencies that have to do with MSMEs together so that they can work together. Our Employment Trust Fund recently donated N5 Billion to SMEs,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .